= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Azure integration with Microsoft 365

_This article applies to both Microsoft 365 Enterprise and Office 365
Enterprise._

Microsoft 365 uses Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) to manage user
identities behind the scenes. Your Microsoft 365 subscription includes a
free Azure AD subscription so that you can integrate your on-premises
Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) to synchronize user accounts
and passwords or set up single sign-on. You can also purchase advanced
features to better manage your accounts.

Azure AD also offers other functionality, like managing integrated apps,
that you can use to extend and customize your Microsoft 365
subscriptions.

You can use the Azure AD deployment advisors for a guided setup and
configuration experience in the Microsoft 365 admin center (you must be
signed in to Microsoft 365):

* https://aka.ms/aadconnectpwsync[Azure AD Connect advisor]
* https://aka.ms/adfsguidance[AD FS deployment advisor]
* https://aka.ms/aadpguidance[Azure AD setup guide]

=== Azure AD editions and Microsoft 365 identity management

If you have a paid subscription to Microsoft 365, you also have a free
Azure AD subscription. You can use Azure AD to create and manage user
and group accounts. To activate this subscription, you have to complete
a one-time registration. Afterward, you can access Azure AD from your
Microsoft 365 admin center.

For instructions to register your free Azure AD subscription, see
link:../compliance/use-your-free-azure-ad-subscription-in-office-365.md[use
your free Azure AD subscription]. Don’t go directly to
azure.microsoft.com to sign up or you’ll end up with a trial or paid
subscription to Microsoft Azure that is separate from your free Azure AD
subscription with Microsoft 365.

With the free subscription you can synchronize with on-premises
directories, set up single sign-on, and synchronize with many software
as service applications, such as Salesforce, DropBox, and many more.

If you want enhanced AD DS functionality, bi-directional
synchronization, and other management capabilities, you can upgrade your
free subscription to a paid premium subscription. For the details, see
https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/active-directory/[Azure
Active Directory editions].

For more information about Microsoft 365 and Azure AD, see
link:deploy-identity-solution-identity-model.md[Microsoft 365 identity
models].

=== Extend the capabilities of your Microsoft 365 tenant

[width="100%",cols="<50%,<50%",options="header",]
|===
|*Feature* |*Description*
|Integrated apps |You can grant individual apps access to your Microsoft
365 data, such as mail, calendars, contacts, users, groups, files, and
folders. You can also authorize these apps at *Azure AD DC admin*, or
*Global admin* level and make them available to your entire company by
registering the apps in Azure AD. For more information, see
link:integrated-apps-and-azure-ads.md[Integrated Apps and Azure AD for
Microsoft 365 administrators]. For more information, see
link:/microsoft-365/admin/add-users/about-admin-roles?[About admin
roles]. Also see
link:/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/what-is-single-sign-on[Single
sign-on].

|Power Apps |Power Apps are focused apps for mobile devices that can
connect to your existing data sources like SharePoint lists and other
data apps. See
https://support.office.com/article/9338b2d2-67ac-4b81-8e67-97da27e5e9ab[Create
a Power App for a list in SharePoint Online] and the
https://powerapps.microsoft.com/[Power Apps page] for details.
|===

=== See also

link:microsoft-365-overview.md[Microsoft 365 Enterprise overview]
