= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Azure ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365

_This article applies to Microsoft 365 Enterprise._

Learn how Azure ExpressRoute is used with Microsoft 365 and how to plan
the network implementation project that will be required if you meet
specific requirements for deploying Azure ExpressRoute for use with
Microsoft 365.

____
[!NOTE] We *do not recommend* ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365 because it
does not provide the best connectivity model for the service in most
circumstances. As such, Microsoft authorization is required to use this
connectivity model. We review every customer request and authorize
ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365 only in the rare scenarios where it is
necessary. Please read the https://aka.ms/erguide[ExpressRoute for
Microsoft 365 guide] for more information and following a comprehensive
review of the document with your productivity, network, and security
teams, work with your Microsoft account team to submit an exception if
needed. Unauthorized subscriptions trying to create route filters for
Microsoft 365 will receive an
https://support.microsoft.com/kb/3181709[error message].
____

=== Planning Azure ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365

In addition to internet connectivity, you may choose to route a subset
of your Microsoft 365 network traffic over Azure ExpressRoute.

Regardless of whether you have an existing MPLS WAN, ExpressRoute can be
added to your network architecture in one of three ways; through a
supported cloud exchange co-location provider, an Ethernet
point-to-point connection provider, or through an MPLS connection
provider. See what
link:/azure/expressroute/expressroute-locations[providers are available
in your region]. The direct ExpressRoute connection will enable
connectivity to the applications outlined in link:#BKMK_WhatDoIGet[What
Microsoft 365 services are included?] below. Network traffic for all
other applications and services will continue to traverse the internet.

Consider the following high level network diagram, which shows a typical
Microsoft 365 customer connecting to Microsoft’s datacenters over the
internet for access to all Microsoft applications such as Microsoft 365,
Windows Update, and TechNet. Customers use a similar network path
regardless of whether they’re connecting from an on-premises network or
from an independent internet connection.

image::../media/9d8bc622-4a38-4a3b-a0f3-68657712d460.png[Microsoft 365
network connectivity.]

Now look at the updated diagram, which depicts an Microsoft 365 customer
who uses both the internet and ExpressRoute to connect to Microsoft 365.
Notice that some connections such as Public DNS and Content Delivery
Network nodes still require the public internet connection. Also notice
the customer’s users who aren’t located in their ExpressRoute connected
building are connecting over the Internet.

image::../media/251788c4-0937-4584-9b2c-df08e11611fc.png[Microsoft 365
connectivity with ExpressRoute.]

=== What Microsoft 365 services are included?

The following table lists the Microsoft 365 services that are supported
over ExpressRoute. Review the
link:./urls-and-ip-address-ranges.md[Microsoft 365 endpoints article] to
understand which network requests for these applications require
internet connectivity.

[width="100%",cols="<100%",options="header",]
|===
|Applications included
|Exchange Online1 Exchange Online Protection1 Delve1

|Skype for Business Online1 Microsoft Teams 1

|SharePoint Online1 OneDrive for Business1 Project Online1

|Portal and shared1 Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) 1 Azure AD
Connect1 Office1
|===

1 Each of these applications has internet connectivity requirements not
supported over ExpressRoute, see the
link:./urls-and-ip-address-ranges.md[Microsoft 365 endpoints article]
for more information.

The services that aren’t included with ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365
are Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise client downloads, On-premises
Identity Provider Sign-In, and Microsoft 365 (operated by 21 Vianet)
service in China.

____
[!NOTE] Microsoft Defender for Endpoint does not provide integration
with Azure ExpressRoute. While this does not stop customers from
defining ExpressRoute rules that enable connectivity from a private
network to Microsoft Defender for Endpoint cloud services, it is up to
the customer to maintain rules as the service or cloud infrastructure
evolves.
____

=== Implementing ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365

Implementing ExpressRoute requires the involvement of network and
application owners and requires careful planning to determine the new
https://support.office.com/article/e1da26c6-2d39-4379-af6f-4da213218408[network
routing architecture], bandwidth requirements, where security will be
implemented, high availability, and so on. To implement ExpressRoute,
you’ll need to:

[arabic]
. Fully understand the need ExpressRoute satisfies in your Microsoft 365
connectivity planning. Understand what applications will use the
internet or ExpressRoute and fully plan your network capacity, security,
and high availability needs in the context of using both the internet
and ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365 traffic.
. Determine the egress and peering locations for both internet and
ExpressRoute traffic1.
. Determine the capacity required on the internet and ExpressRoute
connections.
. Have a plan in place for implementing security and other standard
perimeter controls1.
. Have a valid Microsoft Azure account to subscribe to ExpressRoute.
. Select a connectivity model and an
link:/azure/expressroute/expressroute-locations[approved provider]. Keep
in mind, customers can select multiple connectivity models or partners
and the partner doesn’t need to be the same as your existing network
provider.
. Validate deployment prior to directing traffic to ExpressRoute.
. Optionally
https://support.office.com/article/ExpressRoute-and-QoS-in-Skype-for-Business-Online-20c654da-30ee-4e4f-a764-8b7d8844431d[implement
QoS] and evaluate regional expansion.

1 Important performance considerations. Decisions here can dramatically
impact latency, which is a critical for applications such as Skype for
Business.

For additional references, use our
https://support.office.com/article/Routing-with-ExpressRoute-for-Office-365-e1da26c6-2d39-4379-af6f-4da213218408[routing
guide] in addition to the
link:/azure/expressroute/expressroute-introduction[ExpressRoute
documentation].

To purchase ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365, you’ll need to work with one
or more link:/azure/expressroute/expressroute-locations[approved
providers] to provision the desired number and size circuits with an
ExpressRoute Premium subscription. There are no additional licenses to
purchase from Microsoft 365.

Here’s a short link you can use to come back:
link:[https://aka.ms/expressrouteoffice365]

Ready to sign up for https://aka.ms/ert[ExpressRoute for Microsoft 365]?

=== Related Topics

link:assessing-network-connectivity.md[Assessing Microsoft 365 network
connectivity]

link:implementing-expressroute.md[Implementing ExpressRoute for
Microsoft 365]

https://support.office.com/article/5fe3e01b-34cf-44e0-b897-b0b2a83f0917[Media
Quality and Network Connectivity Performance in Skype for Business
Online]

link:performance-tuning-using-baselines-and-history.md[Microsoft 365
performance tuning using baselines and performance history]

link:performance-troubleshooting-plan.md[Performance troubleshooting
plan for Microsoft 365]

link:urls-and-ip-address-ranges.md[Microsoft 365 URLs and IP address
ranges]

link:network-planning-and-performance.md[Microsoft 365 network and
performance tuning]

=== See also

link:microsoft-365-overview.md[Microsoft 365 Enterprise overview]
