= 
tklarsen

== Configure Search for Microsoft 365 Multi-Geo

=== Configure Multi-Geo Search

Your Multi-Geo _Tenant_ will have aggregate search capabilities allowing
a search query to return results from anywhere within the _Tenant_.

By default, searches from these entry points will return aggregate
results, even though each search index is located within its relevant
_Geography_ location:

* OneDrive for Business
* Delve
* SharePoint Home
* Search Center

Additionally, Multi-Geo search capabilities can be configured for your
custom search applications that use the SharePoint search API.

Please review link:configure-search-for-multi-geo.md[Configure Search
for OneDrive for Business Multi-Geo] for instructions including any
limitations and differences.

=== Validating the Microsoft 365 Multi-Geo configuration

Below are some basic use cases you may wish to include in your
validation plan before broadly rolling out Microsoft 365 Multi-Geo to
your company. Once you have completed these tests and any additional use
cases that are relevant to your company, you may choose to move on to
adding the users in your initial pilot group.

OneDrive for Business:

Select OneDrive from the Microsoft 365 app launcher and confirm that you
are automatically directed to the appropriate _Geography_ location for
the user, based on the user’s PDL. OneDrive for Business should now
begin provisioning at that location. Once provisioned, try uploading and
downloading some documents.

OneDrive Mobile App:

Log in to your OneDrive mobile App with your test account credentials.
Confirm that you can see your OneDrive for Business files and can
interact with them from your mobile device.

OneDrive sync client:

Confirm that the OneDrive sync client automatically detects your
OneDrive for Business _Geography_ location upon login. If you need to
download the sync client, you can click *Sync* in the OneDrive library.

Office applications:

Confirm that you can access OneDrive for Business by logging in from an
Office application, such as Word. Open the Office application and select
*OneDrive – <TenantName>*. Office will detect your OneDrive location and
show you the files that you can open.

Sharing:

Try sharing OneDrive files. Confirm that the people picker shows you all
your SharePoint online users regardless of their _Geography_ location.

In a multi-geo environment, each _Geography_ location has its own search
index and Search Center. When a user searches, the query is fanned out
to all the indexes, and the returned results are merged.

For example, a user in one _Geography_ location can search for content
stored in another _Geography_ location, or for content on a SharePoint
site that’s restricted to a different Geography location. If the user
has access to this content, search will show the result.

=== Which search clients work in a Multi-Geo environment?

These clients can return results from all Geography locations:

* OneDrive
* Delve
* The SharePoint home page
* The Search Center
* Custom search applications that use the SharePoint Search API

==== OneDrive

As soon as the Multi-Geo environment has been set up, users that search
in OneDrive get results from all _Geography_ locations.

==== Delve

As soon as the Multi-Geo environment has been set up, users that search
in Delve get results from all _Geography_ locations.

The Delve feed and the profile card only show previews of files that are
stored in the central location. For files that are stored in _Satellite
Geography_ locations, the icon for the file type is shown instead.

==== The SharePoint home page

As soon as the Multi-Geo environment has been set up, users will see
news, recent and followed sites from multiple _Geography_ locations on
their SharePoint home page. If they use the search box on the SharePoint
home page, they’ll get merged results from multiple _Geography_
locations.

==== The Search Center

After the multi-geo environment has been set up, each Search Center
continues to only show results from their own _Geography_ location.
Admins must link:#_Set_up_a_1[change the settings of each Search Center]
to get results from all _Geography_ locations. Afterwards, users that
search in the Search Center get results from all _Geography_ locations.

==== Custom search applications

As usual, custom search applications interact with the search indexes by
using the existing SharePoint Search REST APIs. To get results from all,
or some _Geography_ locations, the application must
link:#_Get_custom_search[call the API and include the new Multi-Geo
query parameters] in the request. This triggers a fan out of the query
to all _Geography_ locations.

=== What’s different about search in a Multi-Geo environment?

Some search features you might be familiar with, work differently in a
multi-geo environment.

Feature

How it works

Workaround

Promoted results

You can create query rules with promoted results at different levels:
for the whole _Tenant_, for a site collection, or for a site. In a
Multi-Geo environment, define promoted results at the _Tenant_ level to
promote the results to the Search Centers in all _Geography_ locations.
If you only want to promote results in the Search Center that’s in the
_Geography_ location of the site collection or site, define the promoted
results at the site collection or site level. These results are not
promoted in other _Geography_ locations.

If you don’t need different promoted results per _Geography_ location,
for example different rules for traveling, we recommend defining
promoted results at the _Tenant_ level.

Search refiners

Search returns refiners from all the _Geography_ locations of a _Tenant_
and then aggregates them. The aggregation is a best effort, meaning that
the refiner counts might not be 100% accurate. For most search-driven
scenarios, this accuracy is sufficient.

For search-driven applications that depend on refiner completeness,
query each _Geography_ location independently.

Multi-Geo search doesn’t support dynamic bucketing for numerical
refiners.

Use the ``Discretize'' parameter for numerical refiners.

Document IDs

If you’re developing a search-driven application that depends on
document IDs, note that document IDs in a Multi-Geo environment aren’t
unique across _Geography_ locations, they are unique per _Geography_
location.

We’ve added a column that identifies the _Geography_ location. Use this
column to achieve uniqueness. This column is named
``GeoLocationSource''.

Number of results

The search results page shows combined results from the _Geography_
locations, but it’s not possible to page beyond 500 results.

Hybrid search

In a hybrid SharePoint environment with cloud hybrid search, on-premises
content is added to the Microsoft 365 index of the central location.

=== What’s not supported for search in a multi-geo environment?

Some of the search features you might be familiar with, aren’t supported
in a multi-geo environment.

Search feature

Note

App-only authentication

App-only authentication (privileged access from services) isn’t
supported in multi-geo search.

Guests

Guests only get results from the _Geography_ location that they’re
searching from.

=== How does search work in a Multi-Geo environment?

All the search clients use the existing SharePoint Search REST APIs to
interact with the search indexes.

image::../media/configure-search-for-multi-geo-image1-1.png[Diagram
showing how SharePoint Search REST APIs interact with the search
indexes.]

[arabic]
. A search client calls the Search REST endpoint with the query property
EnableMultiGeoSearch= true.
. The query is sent to all _Geography_ locations in the _Tenant_.
. Search results from each _Geography_ location are merged and ranked.
. The client gets unified search results.

[#_Set_up_a .anchor]##[#_Ref501388384 .anchor]####Notice that we don’t
merge the search results until we’ve received results from all the geo
locations. This means that multi-geo searches have additional latency
compared to searches in an environment with only one geo location.

[#_Set_up_a_1 .anchor]#[#_Ref505252370 .anchor]### ## Get a Search
Center to show results from all geo locations

Each Search Center has several verticals and you have to set up each
vertical individually.

[arabic]
. Ensure that you perform these steps with an account that has
permission to edit the search results page and the Search Result Web
Part.
. Navigate to the search results page (see the
https://support.office.com/article/174d36e0-2f85-461a-ad9a-8b3f434a4213[list]
of search results pages)
. Select the vertical to set up, click *Settings* gear icon in the
upper, right corner, and then click *Edit Page*. The search results page
opens in Edit mode.
+
image::../media/configure-search-for-multi-geo-image2.png[Edit page
selection in Settings.]
. In the Search Results Web Part, move the pointer to the upper, right
corner of the web part, click the arrow, and then click *Edit Web Part*
on the menu. The Search Results Web Part tool pane opens under the
ribbon in the top right of the page.
+
image::../media/configure-search-for-multi-geo-image3.png[Edit Web Part
selection.]
. In the Web Part tool pane, in the *Settings* section, under *Results
control settings*, select *Show Multi-Geo results* to get the Search
Results Web Part to show results from all geo locations.
. Click *OK* to save your change and close the Web Part tool pane.
. Check your changes to the Search Results Web Part by clicking
*Check-In* on the Page tab of the main menu.
. Publish the changes by using the link provided in the note at the top
of the page.

[#_Get_custom_search .anchor]#[#_Ref501388387 .anchor]### ## Get custom
search applications to show results from all or some geo locations

Custom search applications get results from all, or some, _Geography_
locations by specifying query parameters with the request to the
SharePoint Search REST API. Depending on the query parameters, the query
is fanned out to all _Geography_ locations, or to some geo locations.
For example, if you only need to query a subset of _Geography_ locations
to find relevant information, you can control the fan out to only these.
If the request succeeds, the SharePoint Search REST API returns response
data.

==== Requirement

For each geo location, you must ensure that all users in the
organization have been granted the *Read* permission level for the root
website (for example contoso**APAC**.sharepoint.com/ and
contoso**EU**.sharepoint.com/).
https://support.office.com/article/understanding-permission-levels-in-sharepoint-87ecbb0e-6550-491a-8826-c075e4859848[Learn
about permissions].

==== Query parameters

EnableMultiGeoSearch - This is a Boolean value that specifies whether
the query shall be fanned out to the indexes of other geo locations of
the multi-geo _Tenant_. Set it to *true* to fan out the query; *false*
to not fan out the query. If you don’t include this parameter, the
default value is *false*, except when making a REST API call against a
site which uses the Enterprise Search Center template, in this case the
default value is *true*. If you use the parameter in an environment that
isn’t multi-geo, the parameter is ignored.

ClientType - This is a string. Enter a unique client name for each
search application. If you don’t include this parameter, the query is
not fanned out to other geo locations.

MultiGeoSearchConfiguration - This is an optional list of which geo
locations in the multi-geo _Tenant_ to fan the query out to when
*EnableMultiGeoSearch* is *true*. If you don’t include this parameter,
or leave it blank, the query is fanned out to all geo locations. For
each geo location, enter the following items, in JSON format:

Item

Description

DataLocation

The _Geography_ location, for example NAM.

EndPoint

The endpoint to connect to, for example https://contoso.sharepoint.com

SourceId

The GUID of the result source, for example
B81EAB55-3140-4312-B0F4-9459D1B4FFEE.

If you omit DataLocation or EndPoint, or if a DataLocation is
duplicated, the request fails.
link:/sharepoint/dev/solution-guidance/multigeo-discovery[You can get
information about the endpoint of a tenant’s geo locations by using
Microsoft Graph].

==== Response data

MultiGeoSearchStatus – This is a property that the SharePoint Search API
returns in response to a request. The value of the property is a string
and gives the following information about the results that the
SharePoint Search API returns:

Value

Description

Full

Full results from all the _Geography_ locations.

Partial

Partial results from one or more _Geography_ locations. The results are
incomplete due to a transient error.

==== Query using the REST service

With a GET request, you specify the query parameters in the URL. With a
POST request, you pass the query parameters in the body in JavaScript
Object Notation (JSON) format.

===== Request headers

Name

Value

Content-Type

application/json;odata=verbose

===== Sample GET request that’s fanned out to *all* geo locations

[source,http]
----
https:// \<tenant\>/\_api/search/query?querytext='sharepoint'&Properties='EnableMultiGeoSearch:true'&ClientType='my\_client\_id'
----

===== Sample GET request to fan out to *some* geo locations

[source,http]
----
https:// \<tenant\>/\_api/search/query?querytext='site'&ClientType='my_client_id'&Properties='EnableMultiGeoSearch:true, MultiGeoSearchConfiguration:[{DataLocation\\:"NAM"\\,Endpoint\\:"https\\://contosoNAM.sharepoint.com"\\,SourceId\\:"B81EAB55-3140-4312-B0F4-9459D1B4FFEE"}\\,{DataLocation\\:"CAN"\\,Endpoint\\:"https\\://contosoCAN.sharepoint-df.com"}]'
----

____
[!NOTE] Commas and colons in the list of geo locations for the
MultiGeoSearchConfiguration property are preceded by the *backslash*
character. This is because GET requests use colons to separate
properties and commas to separate arguments of properties. Without the
backslash as an escape character, the MultiGeoSearchConfiguration
property is interpreted wrongly.
____

===== Sample POST request that’s fanned out to *all* geo locations

[source,http]
----
    {
    "request": {
            "__metadata": {
            "type": "Microsoft.Office.Server.Search.REST.SearchRequest"
        },
        "Querytext": "sharepoint",
        "Properties": {
            "results": [
                {
                    "Name": "EnableMultiGeoSearch",
                    "Value": {
                        "QueryPropertyValueTypeIndex": 3,
                        "BoolVal": true
                    }
                }
            ]
        },
        "ClientType": "my_client_id"
        }
    }
----

===== Sample POST request that’s fanned out to *some* geo locations

[source,http]
----
    {
        "request": {
            "Querytext": "SharePoint",
            "ClientType": "my_client_id",
            "Properties": {
                "results": [
                    {
                        "Name": "EnableMultiGeoSearch",
                        "Value": {
                            "QueryPropertyValueTypeIndex": 3,
                            "BoolVal": true
                        }
                    },
                    {
                        "Name": "MultiGeoSearchConfiguration",
                        "Value": {
                        "StrVal": "[{\"DataLocation\":\"NAM\",\"Endpoint\":\"https://contoso.sharepoint.com\",\"SourceId\":\"B81EAB55-3140-4312-B0F4-9459D1B4FFEE\"},{\"DataLocation\":\"CAN\",\"Endpoint\":\"https://contosoCAN.sharepoint.com\"}]",
                            "QueryPropertyValueTypeIndex": 1
                        }
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    }
----

==== Query using CSOM

Here’s a sample CSOM query that’s fanned out to *all* _Geography_
locations:

[source,csom]
----
var keywordQuery = new KeywordQuery(ctx);
keywordQuery.QueryText = query.SearchQueryText;
keywordQuery.ClientType = <enter a string here>;
keywordQuery.Properties["EnableMultiGeoSearch"] = true;
----
