= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Identity for the Contoso Corporation

Microsoft provides Identity as a Service (IDaaS) across its cloud
offerings through Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). To adopt Microsoft
365 for enterprise, the Contoso IDaaS solution had to use their
on-premises identity provider and include federated authentication with
their existing trusted, third-party identity providers.

=== The Contoso Active Directory Domain Services forest

Contoso uses a single Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) forest
for contoso.com with seven subdomains, one for each region of the world.
The headquarters, regional hub offices, and satellite offices contain
domain controllers for local authentication and authorization.

Here’s the Contoso forest with regional domains for the different parts
of the world that contain regional hubs.

:::image type=``content'' alt-text=``Contoso’s forest and domains
worldwide.''
source=``../media/contoso-identity/contoso-identity-fig1.png''
lightbox=``../media/contoso-identity/contoso-identity-fig1.png'':::

Contoso decided to use the accounts and groups in the contoso.com forest
for authentication and authorization for its Microsoft 365 workloads and
services.

=== The Contoso federated authentication infrastructure

Contoso allows:

* Customers to use their Microsoft, Facebook, or Google Mail accounts to
sign in to the company’s public web site.
* Vendors and partners to use their LinkedIn, Salesforce, or Google Mail
accounts to sign in to the company’s partner extranet.

Here’s the Contoso DMZ containing a public web site, a partner extranet,
and a set of Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) servers. The
DMZ is connected to the internet that contains customers, partners, and
internet services.

image::../media/contoso-identity/contoso-identity-fig2.png[Contoso
support for federated authentication for customers and partners.]

AD FS servers in the DMZ facilitate authentication of customer
credentials by their identity providers for access to the public web
site and partner credentials for access to the partner extranet.

Contoso decided to keep this infrastructure and dedicate it to customer
and partner authentication. Contoso identity architects are
investigating the conversion of this infrastructure to Azure AD
link:/azure/active-directory/b2b/hybrid-organizations[B2B] and
link:/azure/active-directory-b2c/solution-articles[B2C] solutions.

=== Hybrid identity with password hash synchronization for cloud-based authentication

Contoso wanted to use its on-premises AD DS forest for authentication to
Microsoft 365 cloud resources. It decided to use password hash
synchronization (PHS).

PHS synchronizes the on-premises AD DS forest with the Azure AD tenant
of their Microsoft 365 for enterprise subscription, copying user and
group accounts and a hashed version of user account passwords.

To do directory synchronization, Contoso deployed the Azure AD Connect
tool on a server in its Paris datacenter.

Here’s the server running Azure AD Connect polling the Contoso AD DS
forest for changes and then synchronizing those changes with the Azure
AD tenant.

image::../media/contoso-identity/contoso-identity-fig4.png[The Contoso
PHS directory synchronization infrastructure.]

=== Conditional Access policies for Zero Trust identity and device access

Contoso created a set of Azure AD and Intune
link:../security/office-365-security/identity-access-policies.md[Conditional
Access policies] for three protection levels:

* _Starting point_ protections apply to all user accounts.
* _Enterprise_ protections apply to senior leadership and executive
staff.
* _Specialized security_ protections apply to specific users in the
finance, legal, and research departments who have access to highly
regulated data.

Here’s the resulting set of Contoso identity and device Conditional
Access policies.

:::image type=``content'' alt-text=``Contoso’s identity and device
Conditional Access policies.''
source=``../media/contoso-identity/contoso-identity-fig5.png''
lightbox=``../media/contoso-identity/contoso-identity-fig5.png'':::

=== Next step

Learn how Contoso uses its Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager
infrastructure to link:contoso-win10.md[deploy and keep current Windows
10 Enterprise] across its organization.

=== See also

link:deploy-identity-solution-overview.md[Deploy identity for Microsoft
365]

link:microsoft-365-overview.md[Microsoft 365 for enterprise overview]

link:m365-enterprise-test-lab-guides.md[Test lab guides]
