= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Data move general FAQ

Here are answers to general questions about moving core customer data at
rest to a new datacenter geo.

=== What customers are eligible to request a move?

Click to expand

Existing Microsoft 365 commercial customers who selected a country
eligible for the new datacenter geo will be able to request a move. The
program exists only for tenants with an eligible country code assigned
to the Microsoft 365 tenant to migrate core customer data at rest for
eligible workloads to the corresponding Microsoft 365 datacenter geo.
See link:request-your-data-move.md[How to request your data move] to
confirm country eligibility.

=== How do we define Core Customer Data?

Click to expand

Core customer data is a term that refers to a subset of customer data
defined in the https://aka.ms/ost[Microsoft Online Services Terms]:

* Exchange Online mailbox content (email body, calendar entries, and the
content of email attachments)
* SharePoint Online site content and the files stored within that site
* Files uploaded to OneDrive for Business

=== What is in scope for Teams migration?

Click to expand

In addition to Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and OneDrive for
Business; Microsoft will migrate Teams data to the local datacenter.

* Teams chat messages, including private messages and channel messages.
* Teams images used in chats.

Teams files are stored in SharePoint Online and Teams chat files are
stored in OneDrive for Business. Voicemail, calendar, and contacts are
stored in Exchange Online. In many cases, Exchange Online, SharePoint
Online, and OneDrive for Business are already used by the customer in
the local datacenter geo and are also part of the Microsoft 365
migration program for eligible customer countries.

=== At what point is my migration complete so that my tenant’s core customer data is being stored at rest in my new geo?

Click to expand

Due to shared dependencies between Exchange Online and SharePoint
Online/OneDrive for Business, any migration cannot be considered
completed until both services are migrated. Exchange Online and
SharePoint Online/OneDrive for Business often migrate at separate times
and independently from one another. Customer tenant admins receive
confirmation in Message Center when each service migration is completed
and can view the data location card in the Admin Center at any time to
confirm the core customer data at rest location for each service.

=== How do you make sure my customer data is safe during the move and that I won’t experience downtime?

Click to expand

Data moves are a back-end service operation with minimal impact to end
users. Features that can be impacted are listed in
link:during-and-after-your-data-move.md[During and after your data
move]. We adhere to the
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=523897[Microsoft Online
Services Service Level Agreement (SLA)] for availability so there is
nothing that customers need to prepare for or to monitor during the
move.

All Microsoft 365 services run the same versions in the datacenters, so
you can be assured of consistent functionality. Your service is fully
supported throughout the process.

=== What is the impact of having different services located in different geos?

Click to expand

Some of the Microsoft 365 services may be located in different geos for
some existing customers and for customers that are in the middle of the
move process. Our services run independently of each other and there is
no impact on the user experience if this is the case. However, for data
residency purposes, a tenant migration cannot be considered as complete
until both Exchange Online and SharePoint Online/OneDrive for Business
are migrated to the same datacenter geo.

=== Where is my core customer data located?

Click to expand

Customer tenant admins can view the data location card in the Admin
Center at any time to confirm the core customer data at rest location
for each service, specifically for their tenant. We also publish the
location of datacenter geos, datacenters, and location of Office 365
customer data on the https://office.com/datamaps[Microsoft 365
interactive datacenter maps] as a reference for the current default core
customer data at rest locations for new tenants. You can verify the
location of your customer data at rest via the Data Location section
under your Organization Profile in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

=== When will I be able to request a move?

Click to expand

Please refer to the link:request-your-data-move.md[How to request your
data move] page for supported timeframes for your datacenter geo.

=== How can I request to be moved?

Click to expand

Eligible customers will see a page in their
https://admin.microsoft.com/[Microsoft 365 admin center]. Please see
link:request-your-data-move.md[How to request your data move] for
instructions on how to request a move.

=== Can I change my selection after requesting a move?

Click to expand

It is not possible for us to remove you from the process after you
submit your request.

=== What happens if I do not request a move before the deadline?

Click to expand

We cannot accept requests for migration after the open enrollment
period.

=== What if I want to move my data in order to get better network performance?

Click to expand

Physical proximity to a Microsoft 365 datacenter is not a guarantee for
a better networking performance. There are many factors and components
that affect the network performance between the end user and the
Microsoft 365 service. For more information about this and performance
tuning, see link:network-planning-and-performance.md[Network planning
and performance tuning for Microsoft 365].

=== Do all the services move their data on the same day?

Click to expand

Each service moves independently and will likely move their data at
different times.

=== Can I choose when I want my data to be moved?

Click to expand

Customers are not able to select a specific date, they cannot delay
their move, and we cannot share a specific date or timeframe for the
moves.

=== Can you share when my data will be moved?

Click to expand

Data moves are a back-end operation with minimal impact to end users.
The complexity, precision, and scale at which we need to perform data
moves within a globally operated and automated environment prohibit us
from sharing when a data move is expected to complete for your tenant or
any other single tenant. Customers will receive one confirmation in
Message Center per participating service when its data move has
completed.

=== What happens if users access services while the data is being moved?

Click to expand

See link:during-and-after-your-data-move.md[During and after your data
move] for a complete list of features that may be limited during
portions of the data move for each service.

=== How do I know the move is complete?

Click to expand

Watch the Microsoft 365 Message Center for confirmation that the move of
each service’s data is complete. When each service’s data is moved,
we’ll post a completion notice so you’ll get three completion notices:
one each for Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and Skype for Business
Online. You can also verify the location of your customer data at rest
via the Data Location section under your Organization Profile in the
Microsoft 365 admin center.

=== I am a Microsoft 365 customer in one of the new datacenter geos, but when I signed up, I selected a different country. How can I be moved to the new datacenter geo?

Click to expand

It is not possible to change the signup country associated with your
tenant. Instead, you need to create a new Microsoft 365 tenant with a
new subscription and manually move your users and data to the new
tenant.

=== What happens if we are in process of email data migration to Microsoft 365 during the Exchange Online move?

Click to expand

This is a very common scenario and is fully supported. Cloud migration
between datacenter geos does not interfere with any on-premises to cloud
mailbox migrations.

=== Can I pilot some users?

Click to expand

You can create a separate trial tenant to test connectivity, but the
trial tenant can’t be combined in any way with your existing tenant.

=== I don’t want to wait for Microsoft to move my data. Can I just create a new tenant and move myself?

Click to expand

Yes, however the process will not be as seamless as if Microsoft were to
perform the data move.

If you create a new tenant after the new datacenter geo is available,
the new tenant will be hosted in the new geo. This new tenant is
completely separate from your previous tenant and you would be
responsible for moving all user mailboxes, site content, domain names,
and any other data. Note that you can’t move the tenant name from one
tenant to another. We recommend that you wait for the move program
provided by Microsoft as we’ll take care of moving all settings, data,
and subscriptions for your users.

=== My customer data has already been moved to a new datacenter geo. Can I move back?

Click to expand

No, this is not possible. Customers who have been moved to new geo
datacenters cannot be moved back. As a customer in any geo, you will
experience the same quality of service, performance, and security
controls as you did before. https://aka.ms/multi-geo[Microsoft 365 Multi
Geo] is available to some customers as an add-on and lets a single
tenant create multiple satellite geos and move user data to those geos
with data residency commitments.

=== Will Microsoft 365 tenants hosted in the new datacenters be available to users outside of the country?

Click to expand

Yes. Microsoft maintains a large global network with public Internet
connections in more than 130 locations in 35 countries around the world
with peering agreements with more than 2,700 Internet Service Providers
(ISPs). Users will be able to access the datacenters from wherever they
are on the Internet.

=== My tenant has configured the Multi Geo add-on. Can I still enroll in my tenant in the Microsoft 365 Move Program? to change my default geo and move any user not in a satellite region to the new default geo?

Click to expand

Yes, your tenant is eligible to enroll but there are significant
considerations as tenant-level move is not fully supported for customers
that have configured https://aka.ms/multi-geo[Multi-Geo].

SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Business cannot migrate to the new
datacenter geo at the tenant level through this program. The customer
administrator can configure OneDrive for Business shares to move to any
available region using Multi-Geo, but the default location for the
tenant cannot be changed once Multi-Geo has been configured for a
tenant.

For customers that opt-in for migration - we will move all Exchange
Online mailboxes from your current default geo to your new local
datacenter geo and update the default Exchange Online region. We will
not move any EXO mailboxes configured in Multi Geo satellite regions to
continue to respect satellite region data residency as you”ve intended.
Teams chat service tenant migrations for customers with a Multi Geo
configuration behave similarly to Exchange Online.

=== I have public folders deployed in my tenant. What will be the impact on public folder access during or after the move?

Click to expand

There is no impact to end users accessing public folders during or after
the move of public folders. However, the public folders may not be
available for administration in the Exchange Admin Center tool till all
public folder mailboxes are moved in same region. Please check
https://aka.ms/pfxrf[this article] for more details.

=== Related topics

link:moving-data-to-new-datacenter-geos.md[Moving core data to new
Microsoft 365 datacenter geos]

link:request-your-data-move.md[How to request your data move]

https://aka.ms/multi-geo[Microsoft 365 Multi Geo]

https://office.com/datamaps[Microsoft 365 interactive datacenter map]

link:../admin/get-help-support.md[Microsoft 365 Support]

link:/power-platform/admin/new-datacenter-regions[New datacenter geos
for Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online]

https://azure.microsoft.com/regions/[Azure services by region]
