= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Deploy your identity infrastructure for Microsoft 365

In Microsoft 365 for enterprise, a well-planned and executed identity
infrastructure paves the way for stronger security, including
restricting access to your productivity workloads and their data to only
authenticated users and devices. Security for identities is a key
element of a Zero Trust deployment, in which all attempts to access
resources both on-premises and in the cloud are authenticated and
authorized.

For information about the identity features of each Microsoft 365 for
enterprise, the role of Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), on-premises
and cloud-based components, and the most common authentication
configurations, see the
link:../downloads/m365e-identity-infra.pdf[Identity Infrastructure
poster].

link:../downloads/m365e-identity-infra.pdf[image:../downloads/m365e-identity-infra.png[The
Identity Infrastructure poster.]]

Review this two-page poster to quickly ramp up on identity concepts and
configurations for Microsoft 365 for enterprise.

You can
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-365-docs/raw/public/microsoft-365/downloads/m365e-identity-infra.pdf[download
this poster] and can print it in letter, legal, or tabloid (11 x 17)
format.

This solution is the first step to build out the Microsoft 365 Zero
Trust deployment stack.

image::../media/deploy-identity-solution-overview/zero-trust-deployment-stack.png[The
Microsoft 365 Zero Trust deployment stack]

For more information, see the
link:/microsoft-365/security/microsoft-365-zero-trust[Microsoft 365 Zero
Trust deployment plan].

=== What’s in this solution

This solution steps you through the deployment of an identity
infrastructure for your Microsoft 365 tenant to provide access for your
employees and protection against identity-based attacks.

image::../media/deploy-identity-solution-overview/deploy-identity-solution-overview.png[Deploy
your identity infrastructure for Microsoft 365]

The steps in this solution are:

[arabic]
. link:deploy-identity-solution-identity-model.md[Determine your
identity model.]
. link:protect-your-global-administrator-accounts.md[Protect your
Microsoft 365 privileged accounts.]
. link:microsoft-365-secure-sign-in.md[Protect your Microsoft 365 user
accounts.]
. link:cloud-only-identities.md[Deploy your identity model.]

This solution supports the key principles of
https://www.microsoft.com/security/business/zero-trust/[Zero Trust]:

* *Verify explicitly:* Always authenticate and authorize based on all
available data points.
* *Use least privilege access:* Limit user access with Just-In-Time and
Just-Enough-Access (JIT/JEA), risk-based adaptive policies, and data
protection.
* *Assume breach:* Minimize blast radius and segment access. Verify
end-to-end encryption and use analytics to get visibility, drive threat
detection, and improve defenses.

Unlike conventional intranet access, which trusts everything behind an
organization’s firewall, Zero Trust treats each sign-in and access as
though it originated from an uncontrolled network, whether it’s behind
the organization firewall or on the Internet. Zero Trust requires
protection for the network, infrastructure, identities, endpoints, apps,
and data.

=== Microsoft 365 capabilities and features

Azure AD provides a full suite of identity management and security
capabilities for your Microsoft 365 tenant.

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Capability or feature |Description |Licensing
|link:/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-mfa-howitworks[Multi-factor
authentication (MFA)] |MFA requires users to provide two forms of
verification, such as a user password plus a notification from the
Microsoft Authenticator app or a phone call. MFA greatly reduces the
risk that stolen credentials can be used to access your environment.
Microsoft 365 uses the Azure AD Multi-Factor Authentication service for
MFA-based sign-ins. |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/overview[Conditional
Access] |Azure AD evaluates the conditions of the user sign-in and uses
Conditional Access policies to determine the allowed access. For
example, in this guidance we show you how to create a Conditional Access
policy to require device compliance for access to sensitive data. This
greatly reduces the risk that a hacker with their own device and stolen
credentials can access your sensitive data. It also protects sensitive
data on the devices, because the devices must meet specific requirements
for health and security. |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-manage-groups[Azure
AD groups] |Conditional Access policies, device management with Intune,
and even permissions to files and sites in your organization rely on the
assignment to user accounts or Azure AD groups. We recommend you create
Azure AD groups that correspond to the levels of protection you are
implementing. For example, your executive staff are likely higher value
targets for hackers. Therefore, it makes sense to add the user accounts
of these employees to an Azure AD group and assign this group to
Conditional Access policies and other policies that enforce a higher
level of protection for access. |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/identity-protection/overview[Azure AD
Identity Protection] |Enables you to detect potential vulnerabilities
affecting your organization’s identities and configure automated
remediation policy to low, medium, and high sign-in risk and user risk.
This guidance relies on this risk evaluation to apply Conditional Access
policies for multi-factor authentication. This guidance also includes a
Conditional Access policy that requires users to change their password
if high-risk activity is detected for their account. |Microsoft 365 E5,
Microsoft 365 E3 with the E5 Security add-on, EMS E5, or Azure AD
Premium P2 licenses

|link:/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-sspr-howitworks[Self-service
password reset (SSPR)] |Allow your users to reset their passwords
securely and without help-desk intervention, by providing verification
of multiple authentication methods that the administrator can control.
|Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-password-ban-bad[Azure
AD password protection] |Detect and block known weak passwords and their
variants and additional weak terms that are specific to your
organization. Default global banned password lists are automatically
applied to all users in an Azure AD tenant. You can define additional
entries in a custom banned password list. When users change or reset
their passwords, these banned password lists are checked to enforce the
use of strong passwords. |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

| | |
|===

=== Next steps

Use these steps to deploy an identity model and authentication
infrastructure for your Microsoft 365 tenant:

[arabic]
. link:deploy-identity-solution-identity-model.md[Determine your cloud
identity model.]
. link:protect-your-global-administrator-accounts.md[Protect your
Microsoft 365 privileged accounts.]
. link:microsoft-365-secure-sign-in.md[Protect your Microsoft 365 user
accounts.]
. Deploy your cloud identity model:
link:cloud-only-identities.md[cloud-only] or
link:prepare-for-directory-synchronization.md[hybrid].

link:deploy-identity-solution-identity-model.md[image:../media/deploy-identity-solution-overview/identity-solution-identity-model.png[Determine
the identity model to use for your Microsoft 365 tenant]]

=== Additional Microsoft cloud identity resources

==== Manage

To manage your Microsoft cloud identity deployment, see:

* link:manage-microsoft-365-accounts.md[User accounts]
* link:assign-licenses-to-user-accounts.md[Licenses]
* link:manage-microsoft-365-passwords.md[Passwords]
* link:manage-microsoft-365-groups.md[Groups]
* link:manage-microsoft-365-identity-governance.md[Governance]
* link:view-directory-synchronization-status.md[Directory
synchronization]

==== How Microsoft does identity for Microsoft 365

Learn how IT experts at Microsoft
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itshowcase/managing-user-identities-and-secure-access-at-microsoft[manage
identities and secure access].

____
[!Note] This IT Showcase resource is available only in English.
____

==== How Contoso did identity for Microsoft 365

For an example of how a fictional but representative multinational
organization has deployed a hybrid identity infrastructure for Microsoft
365 cloud services, see link:contoso-identity.md[Identity for the
Contoso Corporation].
