= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Manage Microsoft 365 user account passwords

_This article applies to both Microsoft 365 Enterprise and Office 365
Enterprise._

You can manage Microsoft 365 user account passwords in several different
ways, depending on your identity configuration. You can manage user
accounts in the link:/admin[Microsoft 365 admin center], in Active
Directory Domain Services (AD DS), or in the Azure Active Directory
(Azure AD) admin center.

=== Plan for where and how you will manage your user account passwords

Where and how you can manage your user accounts depends on the identity
model you want to use for your Microsoft 365. The two models are
cloud-only and hybrid.

==== Cloud-only

You manage user account passwords in:

* link:/admin[The Microsoft 365 admin center]
* The Azure AD admin center

==== Hybrid

With hybrid identity, passwords are stored in AD DS so you must use
on-premises AD DS tools to manage user account passwords. Even when
using Password Hash Synchronization (PHS), in which Azure AD stores a
hashed version of the already hashed version in AD DS, you and users
must manage their passwords in AD DS.

With link:#pw_writeback[password writeback], your users can change their
AD DS passwords through Azure AD.

=== Prevent bad passwords

All your users should be using
https://www.microsoft.com/research/publication/password-guidance[Microsoft’s
password guidance] to create their user account passwords.

To prevent users from creating an easily-determined password, use Azure
AD password protection, which uses both a global banned password list
and an optional custom banned password list that you specify. For
example, you can specify terms that are specific to your organization,
such as:

* Brand names
* Product names
* Locations (for example, such as company headquarters)
* Company-specific internal terms
* Abbreviations that have specific company meaning

You can ban bad passwords
link:/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-password-ban-bad[in
the cloud] and for your
link:/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-password-ban-bad-on-premises[on-premises
AD DS].

=== Simplify user sign-in

Azure AD Seamless Single Sign-On (Azure AD Seamless SSO) works with PHS
and Pass-Through Authentication (PTA), to allow your users to sign in to
services that use Azure AD user accounts without having to type in their
passwords, and in many cases, their usernames. This gives your users
easier access to cloud-based applications, such as Office 365, without
needing any additional on-premises components such as identity
federation servers.

You configure Azure AD Seamless SSO with the Azure AD Connect tool. See
the
link:/azure/active-directory/connect/active-directory-aadconnect-sso-quick-start[instructions
to configure Azure AD Seamless SSO].

## Simplify password updates to AD DS

With password writeback, you can allow users to reset their passwords
through Azure AD, which is then replicated to AD DS. Users don’t need to
access their on-premises AD DS to update their passwords. This is
valuable to roaming or remote users who do not have a remote access
connection to the on-premises network.

Password writeback is required to fully utilize Azure AD Identity
Protection capabilities, such as requiring users to change their
on-premises passwords when there has been a high risk of account
compromise detected.

For additional information and configuration instructions, see
link:/azure/active-directory/active-directory-passwords-writeback[Azure
AD SSPR with password writeback].

____
[!Note] Upgrade to the latest version of Azure AD Connect to ensure the
best possible experience and new features as they are released. For more
information, see
link:/azure/active-directory/connect/active-directory-aadconnect-get-started-custom[Custom
installation of Azure AD Connect].
____

=== Simplify password resets

Self-service password reset (SSPR) allows users to reset or unlock their
passwords or accounts. To alert you to misuse or abuse, you can use the
detailed reporting that tracks when users access the system, along with
notifications. You must enable link:#pw_writeback[password writeback]
before you can deploy password resets.

See the
link:/azure/active-directory/authentication/howto-sspr-deployment[instructions
to roll out password reset].
