= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Service advisories for mailbox utilization in Exchange Online monitoring

We’ve released a new Exchange Online service advisory that informs you
of mailboxes that are on hold that are at risk of reaching or exceeding
their quota. These service advisories provide visibility to the number
of mailboxes in your organization that may require admin intervention.

These service advisories are displayed in the Microsoft 365 admin
center. To view these service advisories, go to *Health* > *Service
health* > *Exchange Online* and then click the *Active issues* tab.
Here’s an example of a mailbox utilization service advisory.

:::image type=``content'' alt-text=``Mailbox utilization service
alert.'' source=``../media/MailboxUtilizationServiceAlert.png''
lightbox=``../media/MailboxUtilizationServiceAlert.png'':::

To display a list of mailboxes that are nearing their storage quota,
select the highlighted link in the following screenshot to access your
mailbox usage report. This link is displayed in the service advisory.

:::image type=``content'' alt-text=``Link to mailbox usage report.''
source=``../media/LinkToMailboxUsageReport.png''
lightbox=``../media/LinkToMailboxUsageReport.png'':::

Alternatively, the direct URL to the mailbox usage report is
https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/reportsUsage/MailboxUsage.

____
[!NOTE] The mailbox usage report information could be 24 hours behind
your mailbox utilization service advisory alert.
____

=== What do these service advisories indicate?

The service advisories for mailbox utilization inform admins about
mailboxes on hold that are nearing the mailbox storage quota. The type
of holds that that can be placed on mailboxes include Litigation holds,
eDiscovery hold, and Microsoft 365 retention policies (that are
configured to retain data). When a mailbox is on hold, users (or
automated processes) can’t permanently remove data from their mailbox.
Instead, admins must configure MRM retention policies in Exchange Online
(inline with their organization’s compliance policies related to data
retention) to move data from a user’s primary mailbox to their archive
mailbox. If not and a mailbox on a hold reaches a critical or warning
state, admins have to
link:../compliance/enable-archive-mailboxes.md[enable archive mailboxes]
and link:../compliance/enable-autoexpanding-archiving.md[enable
auto-expanding archiving] and then make sure that the retention period
for the archive policy assigned to the mailbox (that moves email from
the primary mailbox to the archive mailbox) is short enough. If nothing
is done to resolve the quota issues that are identified by the mailbox
utilization service advisory, then users might not be able to send or
receive email messages or meeting invites.

A service advisory for mailbox utilization contains tables about the
number of mailboxes that are nearing their quota. The following sections
describe the information in these tables and the action admins can take
to help ensure these mailboxes don’t exceed their quota.

____
[!NOTE] Service advisories contain descriptions of the mailbox quota
properties that appear in the columns in the tables described in the
following sections.
____

==== Mailboxes on hold without an archive

The following table lists the number of mailboxes on hold that are
nearing their quota but don’t have an archive mailbox enabled. Each
column in the table identifies the specific quota and the number of
mailboxes nearing that quota.

[width="100%",cols="<24%,<23%,<29%,<24%",options="header",]
|===
|# Mailboxes ProhibitSendReceiveQuota (Warning) |# Mailboxes
ProhibitSendReceiveQuota (Critical)** |# Mailboxes RecoverableItemsQuota
(Warning) |# Mailboxes RecoverableItemsQuota (Critical)**
|2 |2 |1 |0

| | | |
|===

The action admins can take for these mailboxes is to enable the archive
mailbox and ensure that an MRM archive policy (which is an MRM retention
policy in Exchange Online that moves items to the archive mailbox) is
applied to the mailbox so that items are moved to the archive mailbox.
For more information, see
link:../compliance/set-up-an-archive-and-deletion-policy-for-mailboxes.md[Set
up an archive and deletion policy for mailboxes].

After you enable an archive mailbox, we recommend that you consider
increasing the quota for the Recoverable Items folder. This helps
prevents exceeding the quota for the Recoverable Items folder for
mailboxes that are placed on hold. For more information, see
link:../compliance/increase-the-recoverable-quota-for-mailboxes-on-hold.md[Increase
the Recoverable Items quota for mailboxes on hold].

==== Mailboxes on hold with an archive

The following table lists the number of mailboxes on hold that are
nearing their quota and have an archive mailbox enabled.

[width="100%",cols="<24%,<23%,<29%,<24%",options="header",]
|===
|# Mailboxes ProhibitSendReceiveQuota (Warning) |# Mailboxes
ProhibitSendReceiveQuota (Critical) |# Mailboxes RecoverableItemsQuota
(Warning) |# Mailboxes RecoverableItemsQuota (Critical)**
|1 |1 |6 |0

| | | |
|===

The action admins can take for these mailboxes is to increase the quota
for the Recoverable Items folder. For more information, see
link:../compliance/increase-the-recoverable-quota-for-mailboxes-on-hold.md[Increase
the Recoverable Items quota for mailboxes on hold].

Admins should also make sure that an MRM archive policy that moves items
to the archive mailbox is also applied to the mailboxes, and that the
retention period for the archive policy is short enough so that items
aren’t retained too long in the primary mailbox before they’re moved to
the archive.

____
[!NOTE] MRM archive policies also move items from the Recoverable Items
folder in the primary mailbox to the Recoverable Items folder in the
corresponding archive mailbox. This capability helps prevent the mailbox
from exceeding the quota for the Recoverable Items quota.
____

==== MRM retention policies in your organization

Service advisories for mailbox utilization may also contain a table with
information about the MRM retention policies in your organization and
whether or not the mailboxes that are a retention policy have an archive
mailbox. For more information about retention policies, see
link:/exchange/security-and-compliance/messaging-records-management/retention-tags-and-policies[Retention
tags and retention policies in Exchange Online].

[width="100%",cols="<17%,<15%,<17%,<17%,<17%,<17%",options="header",]
|===
|RetentionPolicyGuid |MailboxType |HasMoveDumpsterToArchiveTag
|HasMovePrimaryToArchiveTag |HasPersonalArchiveTag |Mailboxes
|6c041498-1611-5011-a058-1156ce60890c |PrimaryWithArchive |True |False
|True |398

|6c041498-1611-5011-a058-1156ce60890c |Primary |True |False |True |10

|749ceecc-d49d-4000-a9d5-594dbaea1e56 |PrimaryWithArchive |False |True
|False |7

|269f6a85-1234-4648-8cde-59bbc7bc67d0 |PrimaryWithArchive |True |True
|True |1

|13fb778d-e1cb-4c44-5768-ad4282906c1f |PrimaryWithArchive |True |True
|False |1

| | | | | |
|===

The following list describes each column in the previous table.

* *RetentionPolicyGuid*: The GUID of the retention policy assigned to
mailboxes in your organization. In the previous example, there are two
separate rows for the same retention policy. The first row indicates the
number of mailboxes with an archive that are assigned the policy. The
second row indicates the number of mailboxes without an archive that are
assigned the same policy.
+
To obtain more information about the retention policy listed in this
column, run the following command in
link:/powershell/exchange/connect-to-exchange-online-powershell[Exchange
Online PowerShell].
+
[source,powershell]
----
Get-RetentionPolicy <GUID> | FL
----
+
The value of the *Name* property is the name of the retention policy
that’s displayed on the *Retention policies* page in the Exchange admin
center.
* *MailboxType*: Specifies what type of mailboxes the policy is assigned
to. Values include _Primary_ (mailboxes without an archive) or
_PrimaryWithArchive_ (mailboxes with an archive). If the value in this
column is _Primary_, then you should enable the archive for the
mailboxes (the *Mailbox* column indicates the number of these mailboxes)
that are assigned the policy. Otherwise, an archive policy or personal
archive tag won’t work because there isn’t an archive to move items to.
* *HasMoveDumpsterToArchiveTag*: Indicates that the retention policy
includes a retention tag that move items in the Recoverable Items folder
(also called the _dumpster_) in the primary mailbox to the Recoverable
Items folder in the archive. This type of retention tag is set by an
admin. If the retention period for the recoverable items tag is too
long, then reducing the retention period should help prevent mailboxes
from nearing the quota for Recoverable Items folder. For example, if the
retention period is set to 30 days, reducing it to three or five days
may help. For more information, see
link:../compliance/increase-the-recoverable-quota-for-mailboxes-on-hold.md[Increase
the Recoverable Items quota for mailboxes on hold].
* *HasMovePrimaryToArchiveTag*: Indicates if there is a default ``move
to archive'' retention tag (also called an _archive policy_) included in
the retention policy. In this case, messages will be moved from the
regular folders in the primary mailbox to the archive mailbox. This type
of retention tag is set by an admin. Again, if the retention period for
this tag is too short, users may have problems with continually reaching
the quota for their primary mailbox. Reducing the retention period for
an archive policy may help solve this issue.
* *HasPersonalArchiveTag*: Indicates if the retention policy includes a
personal ``move to archive'' tag. If the retention policy does include a
personal ``move to archive'' tag, then users can apply this tag to
folders and messages in their mailbox to move items to the archive.
Users can also set up an inbox rule to move messages to a folder with
this tagged applied to it. In both cases, this can help move items to
the archive to help avoid reaching the quota for their primary mailbox.
* *Mailboxes*: Indicates the number of mailboxes (those with or without
an archive, which is indicated in the *MailboxType* column) the
retention policy is assigned to.

=== How often will I see these service advisories?

If you don’t take action to resolve the quota issues, you can expect to
see this type of service advisory every seven days. Subsequent service
advisories may contain higher mailbox counts for other mailboxes that
are nearing their quota. If you take action to resolve quota issues,
this service advisory will only occur when another mailbox with quota
issues is identified.

=== More information

* For information about troubleshooting and resolving archive mailbox
issues, see
link:/office365/troubleshoot/microsoft-365-compliance-welcome[Microsoft
Purview troubleshooting].
* For guidance about identifying the holds placed on a mailbox, see
link:../compliance/identify-a-hold-on-an-exchange-online-mailbox.md[How
to identify the type of hold placed on a mailbox].
