= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Service advisories for eDiscovery throttling in Exchange Online monitoring

We’ve released a new Exchange Online service advisory that informs you
of eDiscovery being throttled. These service advisories provide
visibility into the instances when the user is unable to submit Search
and Export because of throttling.

These service advisories are displayed in the Microsoft 365 admin
center. To view these service advisories, go to *Health* |
*https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=842900[Service health]* |
*Exchange Online*. Here’s an example of eDiscovery service advisory.

image::../media/ediscovery-service-health.jpg[eDiscovery service health
screenshot]

=== What does this service advisory indicate?

The service advisories for eDiscovery throttling inform admins about
their tenant being throttled due to number of Search and Export jobs
exceeding the limit set by Microsoft. Various limits are applied to
eDiscovery search tools in the link:~/compliance/index.yml[Microsoft
Purview] compliance portal. This includes searches run on the
link:~/compliance/search-for-content.md[Content Search] page and
searches that are associated with an eDiscovery case on the
link:~/compliance/get-started-core-ediscovery.md[eDiscovery (Standard)]
page. These limits help to maintain the health and quality of services
provided to organizations. These advisories provide awareness so that
you can take these limits into consideration when planning, running, and
troubleshooting eDiscovery searches and exports.

For limits related to the Microsoft Purview eDiscovery (Standard) tool,
see
link:~/compliance/limits-for-content-search.md?viewFallbackFrom=o365-worldwide%20for%20service%20limits[Limits
for Content search and eDiscovery (Standard) in the compliance center].

==== How often will I see these service advisories?

You can expect to see this type of advisory until the time where the
Search and Export jobs are within the defined limit.

=== More information

* For information about troubleshooting and resolving eDiscovery
compliance issues, see
link:/troubleshoot/microsoft-365-compliance-welcome[Microsoft Purview
troubleshooting].
* For information about Microsoft Purview, see
link:/purview/purview[What is Microsoft Purview?]
* To learn more about Microsoft Purview eDiscovery solutions, see
link:~/compliance/ediscovery.md[Microsoft Purview eDiscovery solutions]
