= 
MikePlumleyMSFT

== Multi-Geo Capabilities in OneDrive and SharePoint Online

Multi-Geo capabilities in OneDrive and SharePoint Online enable control
of shared resources like SharePoint team sites and Microsoft 365 Group
mailboxes stored at rest in a specified geo location.

Each user, Group mailbox, and SharePoint site have a Preferred Data
Location (PDL) which denotes the geo location where related data is to
be stored. Users’ personal data (Exchange mailbox and OneDrive) along
with any Microsoft 365 Groups or SharePoint sites that they create can
be stored in the specified geo location to meet data residency
requirements. You can link:add-a-sharepoint-geo-admin.md[specify
different administrators for each geo location].

Users get a seamless experience when using Microsoft 365 services,
including Office applications, OneDrive, and Search. See
link:multi-geo-user-experience.md[User experience in a multi-geo
environment] for details.

=== OneDrive

Each user’s OneDrive can be provisioned in or
link:move-onedrive-between-geo-locations.md[moved by an administrator]
to a satellite location in accordance with the user’s PDL. Personal
files are then kept in that geo location, though they can be shared with
users in other geo locations.

=== SharePoint Sites and Groups

Management of the Multi-Geo feature is available through the SharePoint
admin center. Detailed information can be found in the
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Office-365-Blog/Now-available-Multi-Geo-in-SharePoint-and-Office-365-Groups/ba-p/263302[corresponding
blog post].

When a user creates a SharePoint group-connected site in a multi-geo
environment, their PDL is used to determine the geo location where the
site and its associated Group mailbox are created. (If the user’s PDL
value hasn’t been set, or has been set to geo location that hasn’t been
configured as a satellite location, then the site and mailbox are
created in the central location.)

Microsoft 365 services other than Exchange, OneDrive, SharePoint, and
Teams aren’t Multi-Geo. However, Microsoft 365 Groups that are created
by these services will be configured with the PDL of the creator and
their Exchange Group mailbox, SharePoint site are provisioned in the
corresponding geo.

=== Managing the multi-geo environment

Setting up and managing your multi-geo environment is done through the
SharePoint admin center.

image::../media/sharepoint-multi-geo-admin-center.png[Screenshot of geo
locations page in the SharePoint admin center.]

(Some actions, such as moving a SharePoint site or a OneDrive site
require Microsoft PowerShell.)

=== See also

https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Office-365-Blog/Now-available-Multi-Geo-in-SharePoint-and-Office-365-Groups/ba-p/263302[Multi-Geo
in SharePoint and Microsoft 365 Groups]

link:administering-a-multi-geo-environment.md[Administering a multi-geo
environment]

link:sharepoint-multi-geo-storage-quota.md[SharePoint storage quotas in
multi-geo environments]

link:administering-exchange-online-multi-geo.md[Administering Exchange
Online mailboxes in a multi-geo environment]
