= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Network planning and performance tuning for Microsoft 365

Before you deploy for the first time or migrate to Microsoft 365, you
can use the information in these topics to estimate the bandwidth you
need and then to test and verify that you have enough bandwidth to
deploy or migrate to Microsoft 365. For an overview, see:
link:network-and-migration-planning.md[Network and migration planning
for Microsoft 365].

[width="100%",cols="<25%,<25%,<25%,<25%",options="header",]
|===
|Category |Description |Category |Description
|*Network planning*
image:../media/5e9dcd06-601b-4b28-88dc-f524e7548794.png[Network.] |Want
fast connections and pages that load quickly? Read
https://aka.ms/o365perfprinciples[Getting the best connectivity and
performance in Microsoft 365].Read
link:microsoft-365-networking-overview.md[Microsoft 365 Network
Connectivity Overview] to understand concepts. |*Measuring your network*
image:../media/d690a132-4884-40eb-a918-526bb3dff3cc.png[Calculator]
|Read link:performance-tuning-using-baselines-and-history.md[Microsoft
365 performance tuning using baselines and performance history] and
link:performance-troubleshooting-plan.md[Performance troubleshooting
plan for Microsoft 365]. Use these tools to
link:network-and-migration-planning.md#calculators[evaluate your
existing network].

|*Best practices*
image:../media/2a659a5c-1007-47d3-a6c6-a19e018ab29b.png[Best practices.]
|link:network-and-migration-planning.md#BestPractices[Best practices for
network planning and improving migration performance for Microsoft 365].
Want to get started helping your users right away? See
https://support.office.com/article/fd16c8d2-4799-4c39-8fd7-045f06640166[Best
practices for using Office 365 on a slow network].
link:./microsoft-365-network-connectivity-principles.md[Microsoft 365
Network Connectivity Principles] will help you understand the most
recent guidance for securely optimizing Microsoft 365 network
connectivity. |*Reference*
image:../media/56dff3c1-f605-48d8-811f-7d13ce639ecd.png[Book or Journal]
|Want the details, like a list of IP addresses and ports? See the
link:network-and-migration-planning.md#NetReference[Network planning
reference for Microsoft 365].

|image:../media/3094be9f-2407-4fa5-896d-aa66ef7b9bb9.png[See the
Microsoft Cloud Networking for Enterprise Architects poster.] |For the
steps to optimize your network for Microsoft 365 and other Microsoft
cloud platforms and services, see the
link:../solutions/cloud-architecture-models.md[Microsoft Cloud
Networking for Enterprise Architects] poster. | |
|===

=== Performance tuning and troubleshooting resources for Microsoft 365

Once you have Microsoft 365 deployed, you can optimize your performance
by using the topics in this section. If you experience performance
degradation you can also use these topics to troubleshoot issues.

*link:tune-microsoft-365-performance.md[Tune Office 365 performance]*:
For information about using network address translation with Office 365,
see link:nat-support-with-microsoft-365.md[NAT support with Office 365].
Also, take a look at the
link:/archive/blogs/onthewire/top-10-tips-for-optimising-troubleshooting-your-office-365-network-connectivity[top
10 tips for optimizing and troubleshooting your Office 365 network
connectivity].

*link:tune-exchange-online-performance.md[Tune Exchange Online
performance]*: Use these articles to fine tune Exchange Online
performance.

*link:/microsoftteams/prepare-network[Prepare your organizationâ€™s
network for Microsoft Teams]*: Use these articles to optimize your
network for Teams.

*link:tune-skype-for-business-online-performance.md[Tune Skype for
Business Online performance]*: Use these articles to fine tune Skype for
Business Online performance.

*link:tune-sharepoint-online-performance.md[Tune SharePoint Online
performance]*: Use these articles to fine tune SharePoint Online
performance.

*https://support.office.com/article/12ba0ebd-c616-42e5-b9b6-cad570e8409c[Tune
Project Online performance]*: Use this article to fine tune Project
Online performance
