= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Office 365 Content Delivery Network (CDN) Quickstart

You can use the built-in *Office 365 Content Delivery Network (CDN)* to
host static assets (images, JavaScript, Stylesheets, WOFF files) to
provide better performance for your SharePoint Online pages. The Office
365 CDN improves performance by caching static assets closer to the
browsers requesting them, which helps to speed up downloads and reduce
latency. Also, the Office 365 CDN uses the HTTP/2 protocol for improved
compression and HTTP pipelining. The Office 365 CDN service is included
as part of your SharePoint Online subscription.

For more detailed information guidance see
link:use-microsoft-365-cdn-with-spo.md[Use the Office 365 Content
Delivery Network (CDN) with SharePoint Online].

____
[!NOTE] The Office 365 CDN is only available to tenants in the
production (worldwide) cloud. Tenants in the US Government, China and
Germany clouds do not currently support the Office 365 CDN.
____

=== Use the Page Diagnostics for SharePoint tool to identify items not in CDN

You can use the *Page Diagnostics for SharePoint tool* browser extension
to easily list assets in your SharePoint Online pages that can be added
to a CDN origin.

The *Page Diagnostics for SharePoint tool* is a browser extension for
the new Microsoft Edge (https://www.microsoft.com/edge) and Chrome
browsers that analyzes both SharePoint Online modern portal and classic
publishing site pages. The tool provides a report for each analyzed page
showing how the page performs against a defined set of performance
criteria. To install and learn about the Page Diagnostics for SharePoint
tool, visit link:./page-diagnostics-for-spo.md[Use the Page Diagnostics
tool for SharePoint Online].

When you run the Page Diagnostics for SharePoint tool on a SharePoint
Online page, you can click the *Diagnostic Tests* tab to see a list of
assets not being hosted by the CDN. These assets will be listed under
the heading *Content Delivery Network (CDN) check* as shown in the
screenshot below.

image::../media/page-diagnostics-for-spo/pagediag-results-general.PNG[Page
diagnostics.]

____
[!NOTE] The Page Diagnostics tool only works for SharePoint Online, and
cannot be used on a SharePoint system page.
____

=== CDN Overview

The Office 365 CDN is designed to optimize performance for users by
distributing frequently accessed objects like images and javascript
files over a high-speed global network, reducing page load time and
providing access to hosted objects as close as possible to the user. The
CDN fetches your assets from a location called an _origin_. An origin
can be a SharePoint site, document library or folder that is accessible
by a URL.

The Office 365 CDN is separated into two basic types:

* *Public CDN* is designed to be used for JS (JavaScript), CSS
(StyleSheets), Web Font File (WOFF, WOFF2) and non-proprietary images
like company logos.
* *Private CDN* is designed to be used for images (PNG, JPG, JPEG,
etc.).

You can choose to have both public or private origins for your
organization. Most organizations will choose to implement a combination
of the two. Both public and private options provide similar performance
gains, but each has unique attributes and advantages. For more
information about public and private CDN origins, see
link:use-microsoft-365-cdn-with-spo.md#CDNOriginChoosePublicPrivate[Choose
whether each origin should be public or private].

=== How to enable Public and Private CDN with the default configuration

Before you make changes to the tenant CDN settings, you should verify
that it meets compliance, security and privacy policies of your
organization.

For more detailed configuration settings, or if you have already enabled
CDN and want to add additional locations (origins), please see the
section
link:use-microsoft-365-cdn-with-spo.md#set-up-and-configure-the-office-365-cdn-by-using-the-sharepoint-online-management-shell[Set
up and configure the Office 365 CDN by using the SharePoint Online
Management Shell]

Connect to your tenant using the SharePoint Online Management Shell:

[source,powershell]
----
Connect-SPOService -Url https://<YourTenantName>-admin.sharepoint.com
----

To enable your organization to use both public and private origins with
the default configuration, type the following command:

[source,powershell]
----
Set-SPOTenantCdnEnabled -CdnType Both -Enable $true
----

Output of these cmdlets should look like the following:

image::../media/O365-CDN/o365-cdn-enable-output.png[Output of
Set-SPOTenantCdnEnabled.]

=== See also

link:./page-diagnostics-for-spo.md[Use the Page Diagnostics tool for
SharePoint Online]

link:use-microsoft-365-cdn-with-spo.md[Use the Office 365 Content
Delivery Network (CDN) with SharePoint Online]

link:./content-delivery-networks.md[Content Delivery Networks]

link:./network-planning-and-performance.md[Network planning and
performance tuning for Office 365]

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLR9nK3mnD-OWMfr1BA9mr5oCw2aJXw4WA[SharePoint
Performance Series - Office 365 CDN video series]
