= 
MikePlumleyMSFT

== Plan for Microsoft 365 Multi-Geo

This guidance is designed for administrators of _Tenants_ preparing
their Microsoft 365 _Tenant_ to be expanded to additional Geographies in
accordance with the company’s need to meet data residency requirements.

In a Multi-Geo configuration, your Microsoft 365 _Tenant_ consists of a
_Primary Provisioned Geography_ location and one or more _Satellite
Geography_ locations. This is a single _Tenant_ that spans across
multiple _Geography_ locations.

To help you understand the basic concepts of the Multi-Geo
configuration, please review terms in the Definitions section of the
link:m365-dr-overview.md[Overview and Definitions page].

Enabling Multi-Geo requires four key steps:

[arabic]
. Work with your account team to add the _Multi-Geo Capabilities in
Microsoft 365_ service plan.
. Choose your desired _Satellite Geography_ location(s) and add them to
your _Tenant_.
. Set your users’ Preferred Data Location to the desired _Satellite
Geography_ location. When a new OneDrive for Business site or Exchange
Online mailbox is provisioned for a user, it is provisioned to their
PDL.
. Migrate your users’ existing OneDrive for Business sites from the
_Primary Provisioned Geography_ location to their _Satellite Geography_
data location as needed. (Exchange Online mailboxes are migrated
automatically when you set a user’s PDL.)

See link:multi-geo-tenant-configuration.md[Configure Microsoft 365
Multi-Geo] for details on each of these steps.

Please see the
link:microsoft-365-multi-geo.md#microsoft-365-multi-geo-availability[Availability
section] of the M365 Multi-Geo Overview page for the _Geographies_ that
can be a _Satellite Geography_ location where you can host OneDrive for
Business and SharePoint Online sites, Exchange Online mailboxes, and
Microsoft Teams. As you plan for Multi-Geo, make a list of the locations
that you want to add to your Microsoft 365 _Tenant_. We recommend
starting with one or two satellite locations and then gradually
expanding to more geo locations, if needed.

=== Best practices

We recommend that you create a test user in Microsoft 365 to do some
initial testing. We’ll walk through some testing and verification steps
with this user before you proceed to onboard production users into
Microsoft 365 Multi-Geo.

Once you’ve completed testing with the test user, select a pilot group –
perhaps from your IT department – to be the first to use OneDrive for
Business and Exchange Online in a new geo location. For this first
group, select users who do not yet have a OneDrive for Business. We
recommend no more than five people in this initial group and gradually
expand following a batched rollout approach.

Each user should have a _preferred data location_ (PDL) set so that
Microsoft 365 can determine in which _Geography_ location to provision
their OneDrive. The user’s preferred data location must match one of
your chosen _Satellite Geography_ locations or your _Primary Provisioned
Geography_. While the PDL field is not mandatory, we recommend that a
PDL be set for all users. Workloads of a user without a PDL will be
provisioned in the _Primary Provisioned Geography_.

Create a list of your users and include their user principal name (UPN)
and the location code for the appropriate preferred data location.
Include your test user and your initial pilot group to start with.
You’ll need this list for the configuration procedures.

If your users are synchronized from an on-premises Active Directory
system to Azure Active Directory, you must set the preferred data
location as an Active Directory attribute and synchronize it by using
Azure Active Directory Connect. You cannot directly configure the
preferred data location for synchronized users using Azure AD
PowerShell. The steps to set up PDL in Active Directory and Synchronize
it are covered in
link:/azure/active-directory/connect/active-directory-aadconnectsync-feature-preferreddatalocation[Azure
Active Directory Connect sync: Configure preferred data location for
Microsoft 365 resources].

The administration of a Multi-Geo _Tenant_ can differ from a
non-multi-geo _Tenant_, as many of the SharePoint Online and OneDrive
for Business settings and services are multi-geo aware. We recommend
that you review
link:administering-a-multi-geo-environment.md[Administering a multi-geo
environment] before you proceed with your configuration.

Read link:multi-geo-user-experience.md[User experience in a multi-geo
environment] for details about your end users’ experience in a Multi-Geo
environment.

To get started configuring Microsoft 365 Multi-Geo, see
link:multi-geo-tenant-configuration.md[Configure Microsoft 365
Multi-Geo].

Once you’ve completed the configuration, remember to
link:move-onedrive-between-geo-locations.md[migrate your users’ OneDrive
libraries] as needed to get your users working from their preferred data
locations.

=== Related topics

link:./multi-geo-ediscovery-configuration.md[Microsoft 365 Multi-Geo
eDiscovery configuration]
