= 
kelleyvice-msft

== Setup guides for Microsoft 365 and Office 365 services

Microsoft 365 and Office 365 setup guides give you tailored guidance and
resources for planning and deploying your tenant, apps, and services.
These guides are created using the same best practices that
https://www.microsoft.com/fasttrack/microsoft-365[Microsoft 365
FastTrack] onboarding specialists share in individual interactions, and
they’re available to all admins within the Microsoft 365 admin center.
They give information on product setup, enabling security features,
deploying collaboration tools, and provide scripts to speed up advanced
deployments.

____
[!NOTE] You must be assigned an admin role like Global Reader to access
the Microsoft 365 setup guides. Only admins with the Global
Administrator role can use the guides to change settings in the tenant.
____

=== How to access setup guides in the Microsoft 365 admin center

The setup guides are accessible from the
https://aka.ms/setupguidance[Setup guidance] page in the Microsoft 365
admin center. You can keep track of the status of your progress and
return at any time to complete a guide. To reach the *Setup guidance*
page:

[arabic]
. In the https://admin.microsoft.com/[Microsoft 365 admin center], go to
the *Home* page.
. Find the *Training & guides* card.
+
image::../media/setup-guides-for-microsoft-365/adminportal-trainingandguides.png[Training
& guides card in the Microsoft 365 admin center]
. Select *Advanced deployment guides* and then select *All guides*.
+
image::../media/setup-guides-for-microsoft-365/adminportal-setupguidance.png[Screenshot
of the Setup guidance page in the Microsoft 365 admin center]

=== Guides for initial setup

==== Prepare your environment

The https://aka.ms/prepareyourenvironment[Prepare your environment]
guide helps you prepare your organization’s environment for Microsoft
365 and Office 365 services. Whatever your goals are, there are tasks
you’ll need to complete to ensure a successful deployment. To avoid any
errors while preparing your environment, you’re provided with
step-by-step instructions to connect your domain, add users, assign
licenses, set up email with Exchange Online, and install or deploy
Office apps.

==== Email setup guide

The https://aka.ms/office365setup[Email setup guide] provides you with
the step-by-step guidance needed for configuring Exchange Online for
your organization. This guidance includes setting up new email accounts,
migrating email, and configuring email protection. For a successful
email setup, use this advisor and you’ll receive the recommended
migration method based on your organization’s current mail system, the
number of mailboxes being migrated, and how you want to manage users and
their access.

==== Migrate Gmail contacts and calendar items

When you migrate a Gmail user’s mailbox to Microsoft 365, email messages
are migrated, but contacts and calendar items are not. The
https://aka.ms/gmailcontactscalendar[Gmail contacts and calendar
advisor] provides steps for importing Google contacts and Google
calendar items to Microsoft 365 using import and export methods with
Outlook.com, the Outlook client, or PowerShell.

==== Microsoft 365 setup guide

The https://aka.ms/microsoft365setupguide[Microsoft 365 setup guide]
provides you with guidance when setting up productivity tools, security
policies, and device management capabilities. With a Microsoft 365
Business Premium or Microsoft 365 for enterprise subscription, you can
use this advisor to set up and configure your organization’s devices.

You’ll receive guidance and access to resources to enable your cloud
services, update devices to the latest supported version of Windows 10,
and join devices to Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), all in one
central location.

==== Remote work setup guide

The https://aka.ms/remoteworksetup[Remote work setup guide] provides
organizations with the tips and resources needed to ensure your users
can successfully work remotely, your data is secure, and users’
credentials are safeguarded.

You’ll receive guidance to optimize remote workers’ device traffic to
both Microsoft 365 resources in the cloud and your organization’s
network, which will reduce the strain on your remote access VPN
infrastructure.

==== Microsoft Edge setup guide

Microsoft Edge has been rebuilt from the ground up to bring you
world-class compatibility and performance, the security and privacy you
deserve, and new features designed to bring you the best of the web.

The https://aka.ms/edgeadvisoradmin[Microsoft Edge setup guide] will
help you configure Enterprise Site Discovery to see which sites accessed
in your org might need to use IE mode, review and configure important
security features, configure privacy policies and compliance policies to
meet your org’s requirements, and manage web access on your devices. You
can download Microsoft Edge to individual devices, or we’ll show you how
to deploy to multiple users in your org with Group Policy, Configuration
Manager, or Microsoft Intune.

==== Configure IE mode for Microsoft Edge

If you’ve already deployed Microsoft Edge and only want to configure IE
mode, the https://aka.ms/configureiemodeadmin[Configure IE mode for
Microsoft Edge guide] will give you scripts to automate the
configuration of Enterprise Site Discovery. You’ll also get IE mode
recommendations from a cloud-based tool that will help you create an
Enterprise Mode Site List to deploy to your users.

==== Microsoft Search setup guide

Microsoft Search helps your organization find what they need to complete
what they’re working on. Whether it’s searching for people, files, org
charts, sites, or answers to common questions, your org can use
Microsoft Search throughout their workday to get answers.

The https://aka.ms/MicrosoftSearchSetup[Microsoft Search setup guide]
helps you configure Microsoft Search whether you want to pilot it to a
group of users or roll it out to everyone in your org. You’ll assign
Search admins and Search editors and then customize the search
experience for your users with answers and more options, like adding the
Bing extension to Chrome or setting Bing as your default search engine.

==== Block use of Internet Explorer in your organization

Microsoft support for Internet Explorer 11 is ending soon for most
versions of Windows 10. The https://aka.ms/retireinternetexplorer[Block
use of Internet Explorer in your organization guide] ensures that your
users can still run legacy web apps that rely on Internet Explorer. This
guide also helps you move those users to Microsoft Edge with IE mode.

=== Guides for authentication and access

==== Configure multi-factor authentication (MFA)

The
https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/featureexplorer/security/ConditionalAccess[Configure
multi-factor authentication (MFA) guide] provides information to secure
your organization against breaches due to lost or stolen credentials.
MFA immediately increases account security by prompting for multiple
forms of verification to prove a user’s identity when they sign in to an
app or other company resource. This prompt could be to enter a code on
the user’s mobile device or to provide a fingerprint scan. MFA is
enabled through Conditional Access, security defaults, or per-user MFA.
This guide will provide the recommended MFA option for your org, based
on your licenses and existing configuration.

==== Identity security for Teams

The
https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/teamsidentity[Identity
security for teams guide] helps you with some basic security steps you
can take to ensure your users are safe and have the most productive time
using *Teams*.

==== Add or sync users to Microsoft 365

https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/modernonboarding/identitywizard[This
guide] will help streamline the process of getting your user accounts
set up in *Microsoft 365*. Based on your environment and needs, you can
choose to add users individually, migrate your on-premises directory
with Azure AD cloud sync or Azure AD Connect, or troubleshoot existing
sync problems when necessary.

==== Azure AD setup guide

The https://aka.ms/aadpguidance[Azure AD setup guide] provides
information to ensure your organization has a strong security
foundation. In this guide you’ll set up initial features, like Azure
Role-based access control (Azure RBAC) for admins, Azure AD Connect for
your on-premises directory, and Azure AD Connect Health, so you can
monitor your hybrid identity’s health during automated syncs.

It also includes essential information on enabling self-service password
resets, conditional access and integrated third party sign-on including
optional advanced identity protection and user provisioning automation.

==== Sync users from your Windows Server Active Directory

The https://aka.ms/directorysyncsetup[Sync users from your Windows
Server Active Directory] guide walks you through turning on directory
synchronization. Directory synchronization brings your on-premises and
cloud identities together for easier access and simplified management.
Unlock new capabilities, like single sign-on, self-service options,
automatic account provisioning, conditional access controls, and
compliance policies. These capabilities ensure your users have access to
the resources they need from anywhere.

==== Plan your passwordless deployment

Upgrade to an alternative sign-in approach that allows users to access
their devices securely with one of the following passwordless
authentication methods:

* Windows Hello for Business
* The Microsoft Authenticator app
* Security keys

Use the https://aka.ms/passwordlesssetup[Plan your passwordless
deployment] guide to discover the best passwordless authentication
methods to use and receive guidance on how to deploy them.

==== Integrate a third-party cloud app with Azure AD

https://admin.microsoft.com/Adminportal/Home?source=applauncher#/azureadappintegration[This
guide] helps IT admins to select and configure the App.

==== Plan your self-service password reset (SSPR) deployment

Give users the ability to change or reset their password independently,
if their account is locked, or they forget their password without the
need to contact a helpdesk engineer.

Use the https://aka.ms/SSPRSetupGuide[Plan your self-service password
reset deployment] guide to receive relevant articles and instructions
for configuring the appropriate Azure portal options to help you deploy
SSPR in your environment.

=== Guides for security and compliance

==== Security analyzer

The https://aka.ms/securityanalyzer[Security analyzer] will analyze your
security approach and introduce you to Microsoft integrated security and
compliance solutions that can improve your security posture. You’ll
learn about advanced features, such as managing identities and helping
to protect against modern attacks. You can then sign up for a trial
subscription and be pointed to the corresponding setup guidance for each
solution.

==== Microsoft Intune setup guide

Set up Microsoft Intune to manage devices in your organization. For full
control of corporate devices, you’ll use Intune’s mobile device
management (MDM) features. To manage your organization’s data on shared
and personal devices, you can use Intune’s mobile application management
(MAM) features.

With the https://aka.ms/intunesetupguide[Microsoft Intune setup guide],
you’ll set up device and app compliance policies, assign app protection
policies, and monitor the device and app protection status.

==== Microsoft Defender for Endpoint setup guide

The https://aka.ms/mdatpsetup[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint setup
guide] provides instructions that will help your enterprise network
prevent, detect, investigate, and respond to advanced threats. Make an
informed assessment of your organization’s vulnerability and decide
which deployment package and configuration methods are best.

____
[!NOTE] A Microsoft Volume License is required for Microsoft Defender
for Endpoint.
____

==== Exchange Online Protection setup guide

Microsoft Exchange Online Protection (EOP) is a cloud-based email
filtering service for protection against spam and malware, with features
to safeguard your organization from messaging policy violations.

Use the https://aka.ms/EOPguidance[Exchange Online Protection setup
guide] to set up EOP by selecting which of the three deployment
scenarios—on-premises mailboxes, hybrid (mix of on-premises and cloud)
mailboxes, or all cloud mailboxes—fits your organization. The guide
provides information and resources to set up and review your user’s
licensing, assign permissions in the Microsoft 365 admin center, and
configure your organization’s anti-malware and spam policies in the
Security & Compliance Center.

==== Microsoft Defender for Office 365 setup guide

The https://aka.ms/oatpsetup[Microsoft Defender for Office 365 setup
guide] safeguards your organization against malicious threats that your
environment might come across through email messages, links, and third
party collaboration tools. This guide provides you with the resources
and information to help you prepare and identify the Defender for Office
365 plan to fit your organization’s needs.

==== Microsoft Defender for Identity setup guide

The https://aka.ms/DefenderforIdentitysetup[Microsoft Defender for
Identity setup guide] provides security solution set-up guidance to
identify, detect, and investigate advanced threats that might compromise
user identities. These include detecting suspicious user activities and
malicious insider actions directed at your organization. You’ll create a
Defender for Identity instance, connect to your organization’s Active
Directory, and then set up sensors, alerts, notifications, and configure
your unique portal preferences.

==== Insider risk solutions setup guide

The https://aka.ms/Insiderrisksetup[Insider risk solutions setup guide]
helps you protect your organization against insider risks that can be
challenging to identify and difficult to mitigate. Insider risks occur
in a variety of areas and can cause major problems for organizations,
ranging from the loss of intellectual property to workplace harassment,
and more.

The solutions in this guide will help you gain visibility into user
activities, actions, and communications with native signals and
enrichments from across your organization:

* With the communication compliance solution, you can identify and act
on communication risks for items like workplace violence, insider
trading, harassment, code of conduct, and regulatory compliance
violations.
* The insider risk management solution helps you identify, investigate,
and take action on risks for intellectual property theft, sensitive data
leaks, security violations, data spillage, and confidentiality
violations.

==== Microsoft Purview Information Protection setup guide

Get an overview of the capabilities you can apply to your information
protection strategy so you can be confident your sensitive information
is protected. Use a four-stage lifecycle approach in which you discover,
classify, protect, and monitor sensitive information. The
https://aka.ms/microsoftpurviewinformationprotectionsetupguide[Microsoft
Purview Information Protection setup guide] provides guidance for
completing each of these stages.

==== Microsoft Purview Data Lifecycle Management setup guide

The https://aka.ms/migsetupguide[Microsoft Purview Data Lifecycle
Management setup guide] provides you with the information you’ll need to
set up and manage your organization’s governance strategy, to ensure
that your data is classified and managed according to the specific
lifecycle guidelines you set. With this guide, you’ll learn how to
create, auto-apply, or publish retention labels, retention label
policies, and retention policies that are applied to your organization’s
content and compliance records. You’ll also get information on importing
CSV files with a file plan for bulk scenarios or for applying them
manually to individual documents.

==== Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps setup guide

The https://aka.ms/cloudappsecuritysetup[Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Apps setup guide] provides easy to follow deployment and management
guidance to set up your Cloud Discovery solution. With Cloud Discovery,
you’ll integrate your supported security apps, and then you’ll use
traffic logs to dynamically discover and analyze the cloud apps that
your organization uses. You’ll also set up features available through
the Defender for Cloud Apps solution, including threat detection
policies to identify high-risk use, information protection policies to
define access, and real-time session controls to monitor activity. With
these features, your environment gets enhanced visibility, control over
data movement, and analytics to identify and combat cyberthreats across
all your Microsoft and third party cloud services.

==== Audit solutions setup guide

The https://aka.ms/auditsolutionsetup[Microsoft 365 auditing solutions
guide] provides an integrated solution to help organizations effectively
respond to security events, forensic investigations, and compliance
obligations. When you use the auditing solutions in Microsoft 365, you
can search the audit log for activities performed in different Microsoft
365 services.

==== eDiscovery solutions setup guide

eDiscovery is the process of identifying and delivering electronic
information that can be used as evidence in legal cases. The eDiscovery
solutions setup guide assists in the use of eDiscovery tools in
Microsoft Purview that allow you to search for content in Exchange
Online, OneDrive for Business, SharePoint Online, Microsoft Teams,
Microsoft 365 Groups, and Yammer communities.

=== Guides for collaboration

==== Build your employee experience

Transform how your employees work together with the
https://aka.ms/EmployeeExperienceDashboard[Employee experience
dashboard]. For seamless teamwork, use Microsoft 365 to create
productive, aligned teams, and keep employees engaged with leadership
and the rest of the organization. Help your employees be effective in
all work activities. These guides will provide instructions on how to
use SharePoint, Teams, and Yammer to build collaboration across your org
to help drive productivity.

==== Microsoft 365 Apps setup guide

The https://aka.ms/OPPquickstartguide[Microsoft 365 Apps setup guide]
helps you get your users’ devices running the latest version of Office
products like Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote. You’ll get guidance
on the various deployment methods that include easy self-install options
to enterprise deployments with management tools. The instructions will
help you assess your environment, figure out your specific deployment
requirements, and implement the necessary support tools to ensure a
successful installation.

==== Mobile apps setup guide

The https://aka.ms/officeappguidance[Mobile apps setup guide] provides
instructions for the download and installation of Office apps on your
Windows, iOS, and Android mobile devices. This guide provides you with
step-by-step information to download and install Microsoft 365 and
Office 365 apps on your phone and tablet devices.

==== Microsoft Teams setup guide

The https://aka.ms/teamsguidance[Microsoft Teams setup guide] provides
your organization with guidance to set up team workspaces that host
real-time conversations through messaging, calls, and audio or video
meetings for both team and private communication. Use the tools in this
guide to configure Guest access, set who can create teams, and add team
members from a .csv file, all without the need to open a PowerShell
session. You’ll also get best practices for determining your
organization’s network requirements and ensuring a successful Teams
deployment.

==== Teams Phone setup guide

The https://aka.ms/teamsphonesetupguide[Teams Phone setup guide] helps
you stay connected with the use of modern calling solutions. Apply key
capabilities with a cloud-based, call-control system that supports the
telephony workload for Teams. You can choose and deploy features from
the available public switched telephone network (PSTN) connectivity
options. You can also find assistance for other features, such as auto
attendant, call queues, Audio Conferencing, caller ID, and live events.

==== SharePoint setup guide

The https://aka.ms/spoguidance[SharePoint setup guide] helps you set up
your SharePoint document storage and content management, create sites,
configure external sharing, migrate data and configure advanced
settings, and drive user engagement and communication within your
organization. You’ll follow steps for configuring your content-sharing
permission policies, choose your migration sync tools, and enable the
security settings for your SharePoint environment.

==== OneDrive setup guide

Use the https://aka.ms/ODfBquickstartguide[OneDrive setup guide] to get
started with OneDrive file storage, sharing, collaboration, and syncing
capabilities. OneDrive provides a central location where users can sync
their Microsoft 365 Apps files, configure external sharing, migrate user
data, and configure advanced security and device access settings. The
OneDrive setup guide can be deployed using a OneDrive subscription or a
standalone OneDrive plan.

==== Yammer deployment advisor

Connect and engage across your organization with Yammer. The
https://aka.ms/yammerdeploymentguide[Yammer deployment advisor] prepares
your Yammer network by adding domains, defining admins, and combining
Yammer networks. You’ll get guidance to deploy Yammer and then customize
the look, configure security and compliance, and refine the settings.

=== Advanced guides

==== In-place upgrade with Configuration Manager

Use the https://aka.ms/win10upgradedemo[In-place upgrade with
Configuration Manager guide] when upgrading Windows 7 and Windows 8.1
devices to the latest version of Windows 10. You’ll use the script
provided to check the prerequisites and automatically configure an
in-place upgrade.

==== Deploy Office to your users

Deploy Office apps from the cloud with the ability to customize your
installation by using the Office Deployment Tool. The
https://aka.ms/proplusodt[Deploy Office to your users guide] helps you
create a customized Office configuration with advanced settings, or you
can use a pre-built recommended configuration. Whether your users are
conducting a self-install or you’re deploying to your users individually
or in bulk, this advanced guide provides you with step-by-step
instructions to give users an Office installation tailored to your
organization.

==== Deploy Office to remote users

Now that working remotely is the norm, users need to receive your
organization’s Office settings when they’re not connected to your
internal network or when using their own devices.

Use the https://aka.ms/officeremoteinstall[Deploy Office to remote users
guide] to create a customized Office installation and then send users a
generated PowerShell script that will seamlessly install Office with
your configuration.

==== Deploy and update Microsoft 365 Apps with Configuration Manager

For organizations using Configuration Manager, you can use the
https://aka.ms/oppinstall[Deploy and update Microsoft 365 Apps with
Configuration Manager advisor] to generate a script that will
automatically configure your Microsoft 365 Apps deployment using best
practices recommended by FastTrack engineers. Use this guide to build
your deployment groups, customize your Office apps and features,
configure dynamic or lean installations, and then run the script to
create the applications, automatic deployment rules, and device
collections you need to target your deployment.

==== Intune Configuration Manager co-management setup guide

Use the https://aka.ms/comanagementsetup[Intune Configuration Manager
co-management setup guide] to set up existing Configuration Manager
client devices and new internet-based devices that your org wants to
co-manage with both Microsoft Intune and Configuration Manager.
Co-management allows you to manage Windows 10 devices and adds new
functionality to your org’s devices, while receiving the benefits of
both solutions.

==== School Data Sync rollover setup guide

The https://aka.ms/sdsrolloversetupguide[SDS Rollover setup guide]
provides the steps to help your organization sync student information
data to Azure Active Directory and Office 365. This guide streamlines
the term lifecycle management process by creating Office 365 Groups for
Exchange Online and SharePoint Online, class teams for Microsoft Teams
and OneNote, as well as Intune for Education, and rostering and single
sign-on integration for third-party apps. You’ll perform end-of-year
closeout, tenant cleanup and archive, new school year preparation, and
new school year launch. Then you can create new profiles using the sync
deployment method that suits your organization.
