= 
kelleyvice-msft

== URLs and IP address ranges for Office 365 operated by 21Vianet

_Applies To: Office 365 operated by 21Vianet - Small Business Admin,
Office 365 operated by 21Vianet - Admin_

*Summary*: The following endpoints (FQDNs, ports, URLs, IPv4, and IPv6
prefixes) apply to Office 365 operated by 21 Vianet and are designed to
deliver productivity services to organizations using only these plans.

*Office 365 endpoints:* link:urls-and-ip-address-ranges.md[Worldwide
(including GCC)] | _Office 365 operated by 21 Vianet_ |
link:microsoft-365-u-s-government-dod-endpoints.md[Office 365 U.S.
Government DoD] |
link:microsoft-365-u-s-government-gcc-high-endpoints.md[Office 365 U.S.
Government GCC High] |

*Last updated:* 01/03/2023 -
image:../media/5dc6bb29-25db-4f44-9580-77c735492c4b.png[RSS.]
https://endpoints.office.com/version/China?allversions=true&format=rss&clientrequestid=b10c5ed1-bad1-445f-b386-b919946339a7[Change
Log subscription]

*Download:* all required and optional destinations in one
https://endpoints.office.com/endpoints/China?clientrequestid=b10c5ed1-bad1-445f-b386-b919946339a7[JSON
formatted] list.

Start with link:managing-office-365-endpoints.md[Managing Office 365
endpoints] to understand our recommendations for managing network
connectivity using this data. Endpoints data is updated as needed at the
beginning of each month with new IP Addresses and URLs published 30 days
in advance of being active. This allows for customers who do not yet
have automated updates to complete their processes before new
connectivity is required. Endpoints may also be updated during the month
if needed to address support escalations, security incidents, or other
immediate operational requirements. The data shown on this page below is
all generated from the REST-based web services. If you are using a
script or a network device to access this data, you should go to the
link:microsoft-365-ip-web-service.md[Web service] directly.

Endpoint data below lists requirements for connectivity from a userâ€™s
machine to Office 365. It does not include network connections from
Microsoft into a customer network, sometimes called hybrid or inbound
network connections.

The endpoints are grouped into four service areas. The first three
service areas can be independently selected for connectivity. The fourth
service area is a common dependency (called Microsoft 365 Common and
Office) and must always have network connectivity.

Data columns shown are:

* *ID*: The ID number of the row, also known as an endpoint set. This ID
is the same as is returned by the web service for the endpoint set.
* *Category*: Shows whether the endpoint set is categorized as
``Optimize'', ``Allow'', or ``Default''. You can read about these
categories and guidance for management of them at
link:./microsoft-365-network-connectivity-principles.md[https://aka.ms/pnc].
This column also lists which endpoint sets are required to have network
connectivity. For endpoint sets which are not required to have network
connectivity, we provide notes in this field to indicate what
functionality would be missing if the endpoint set is blocked. If you
are excluding an entire service area, the endpoint sets listed as
required do not require connectivity.
* *ER*: This is *Yes* if the endpoint set is supported over Azure
ExpressRoute with Office 365 route prefixes. The BGP community that
includes the route prefixes shown aligns with the service area listed.
When ER is *No*, this means that ExpressRoute is not supported for this
endpoint set. However, it should not be assumed that no routes are
advertised for an endpoint set where ER is *No*.
* *Addresses*: Lists the FQDNs or wildcard domain names and IP Address
ranges for the endpoint set. Note that an IP Address range is in CIDR
format and may include many individual IP Addresses in the specified
network.
* *Ports*: Lists the TCP or UDP ports that are combined with the
Addresses to form the network endpoint. You may notice some duplication
in IP Address ranges where there are different ports listed.

{empty}[!INCLUDE
link:../includes/office-365-operated-by-21vianet-endpoints.md[Office 365
operated by 21Vianet endpoints]]
