= 
efrene

== Move email and data to Microsoft 365 Business Standard

When you upgrade to Microsoft 365 Business Standard, we give you a brand
new _business identity_. You get a new email account, and a separate
OneDrive account for your business data.

If you want to move some of your personal data over to your new business
identity, follow the instructions below.

=== link:#tab/OneDrive[OneDrive]

*Copy your OneDrive data* 1. Create a temporary folder on your hard
drive to temporarily store the files that you want to migrate to
Microsoft 365 for business.

[arabic, start=2]
. Go to https://onedrive.live.com/ and sign in using the Microsoft
account that you use to access your Microsoft 365 Family subscription.
. Copy the files that you want to use with Microsoft 365 for business to
the local folder that you created in step 1.

*Import OneDrive files to Microsoft 365 for business* 1. Go to
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=816877[admin.microsoft.com] and
sign in with your Microsoft 365 Apps for business user name and
password.

[arabic, start=2]
. Select the *app launcher* icon in the upper-left and then choose
*OneDrive*.
+
____
[!TIP] The first time you open OneDrive for Business, you’ll need to set
up your OneDrive. If this occurs, on the *Welcome to OneDrive for
Business* page, select *Next*. After OneDrive is set up, select *Your
OneDrive is ready*.
____
. You’ll be taken to an empty OneDrive folder. If you want to create sub
folders, select *New* > *Folder*.
. Select *Upload* to copy the files from your hard drive where you
copied your OneDrive files.
+
____
[!NOTE] You can upload individual files and groups of files (such as all
files in a particular folder) at one time but you cannot copy a folder
to OneDrive for Business. Instead, you’ll need to create the folder
structure you want on OneDrive for business. > If you want to copy files
to a folder that you created in step 4, open that folder before you
upload the files. Otherwise, the files will be uploaded to the root
folder. You can also move your files between folders in OneDrive for
Business after you’ve uploaded them.
____

=== link:#tab/Outlook[Outlook/Email]

*Export Outlook 2013 information to an Outlook data file* 1. Before you
can create your Outlook data file (.pst), the account that you want to
export Outlook information from must already be added to the desktop
version of Outlook. For information about how to add an account to
Outlook 2013 or higher, see
https://support.microsoft.com/office/6e27792a-9267-4aa4-8bb6-c84ef146101b[Set
up email in Outlook (for Windows)] or
https://support.microsoft.com/office/de372dc4-9648-4044-a76c-e8a60e178d54[Set
up email in Outlook for Mac 2011].

[arabic, start=2]
. Each user needs to complete the steps in
https://support.microsoft.com/office/14252b52-3075-4e9b-be4e-ff9ef1068f91[Export
or backup email&#44; contacts&#44; and calendar to an Outlook .pst file].

*Set up your new email account in Outlook* 1. Each user needs to set up
their new email account that came with the Microsoft 365 for business
subscription. To do this, they’ll need the address of their new email
account. Each user’s email account is the same as the user name that
they use to sign into Microsoft 365 for business. It will look something
like sue@contoso.onmicrosoft.com or david@contoso.com.

[arabic, start=2]
. Ask each user to add their email account to Outlook. To learn how, see
https://support.microsoft.com/office/6e27792a-9267-4aa4-8bb6-c84ef146101b[Set
up email in Outlook (for Windows)] or
https://support.microsoft.com/office/de372dc4-9648-4044-a76c-e8a60e178d54[Set
up email in Outlook for Mac 2011].

*Import information from the Outlook data file* 1. This merges the
email, calendar, tasks, and contacts that are stored in the PST file
into your Microsoft 365 for business email account.

[arabic, start=2]
. To import the information stored in the PST file into your Microsoft
365 for business email account, have each user complete the steps in
https://support.microsoft.com/office/431a8e9a-f99f-4d5f-ae48-ded54b3440ac[Import
email&#44; contacts&#44; and calendar from an Outlook .pst file].

'''''
