= 
cmcatee-MSFT

== Using self-service sign-up in your organization

Self-service sign-up makes it easier for users in your organization to
sign up for online services from Microsoft. We call this sign up process
``self-service sign-up'' because your users can sign up to use services
paid by your subscription, or use free services, without asking you to
take action on their behalf.

=== How self-service sign-up works

The following example describes how self-sign up works for a school. The
same process works for any organization that has self-service programs
enabled in their tenant.

[arabic]
. Students and faculty members have school email addresses that indicate
they are associated with your institution. For example, the email
address jakob@uw.edu may indicate a student at the University of
Washington.
. Students and faculty go to
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=536628[our web site], and use
their email address to sign up for the services that your organization
offers, such Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise. They can also sign up
for other free services that we offer.
. We validate their email address, and then they can start using
Microsoft 365, Power BI, or other services right away.
. As the business admin, you can see who has signed up for a
subscription by selecting the subscription on the *Licensing* page in
the Microsoft 365 admin center. This way you can see when there are new
or unrecognized licenses for services in your tenant. To control whether
users can sign up for self-service subscriptions, use the
link:/powershell/module/msonline/set-msolcompanysettings[Set-MsolCompanySettings]
PowerShell cmdlet with the *AllowAdHocSubscriptions* parameter. For more
information, see
link:/azure/active-directory/users-groups-roles/directory-self-service-signup#how-do-i-control-self-service-settings[How
do I control self-service settings?]

=== Available self-service programs

Following are the currently available self-service programs. This list
will be updated as new programs are added.

[width="100%",cols="<25%,<25%,<25%,<25%",options="header",]
|===
|Program |Description |Additional Info |Website for self-service sign-up
|****Office 365 A1**** |Any student or teacher can use a school email
address to sign up for free Office 365 and get Office apps for the web,
1 TB of OneDrive cloud storage and SharePoint Online for class, team and
project sites.
|link:/microsoft-365/education/deploy/office-365-education-self-sign-up[Office
365 Education Technical FAQ]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=140841[Office 365 Education]

|*Office 365 A1 Plus* |Eligible students and teachers can sign up for
Office 365 A1 Plus, which includes everything mentioned above plus
Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise. Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise is
productivity software, including Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook,
OneNote, Publisher, Access, and Skype for Business, that is installed on
your desktop or laptop computer.
|link:/microsoft-365/education/deploy/office-365-education-self-sign-up[Office
365 Education Technical FAQ]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=140841[Office 365 Education]

|*Power BI* |Power BI enables users to visualize data, share
discoveries, and collaborate in intuitive new ways. If your organization
already subscribes you may additionally see licenses for ``Power BI Pro
Individual User Trial,'' which offer users limited, free access to
advanced capabilities.
|link:/power-bi/enterprise/service-admin-org-subscription[Power BI in
your organization]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=536629[Microsoft Power BI]

|*Rights Management Services (RMS)* |RMS for individuals is a free
self-service subscription for users in an organization who have been
sent sensitive files that have been protected by Azure Rights Management
(Azure RMS), but their IT department has not implemented Azure Rights
Management (Azure RMS), or Active Directory Rights Management Services
(AD RMS). |link:/azure/information-protection/rms-for-individuals[RMS
for Individuals and Azure Rights Management]
|https://portal.azure.com/[Microsoft Rights Management portal] so you
can check whether you can open a given rights-protected document.

|*Microsoft Power Apps* |In Power Apps, you can manage organizational
data by running an app that you created or that someone else created and
shared with you. Apps run on mobile devices such as phones, or you can
run them in a browser by opening Dynamics 365. You can create an
infinite variety of apps - all without learning a programming language
such as C#. |link:/powerapps/maker/signup-for-powerapps[Self-service
sign up for Power Apps]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841462[Microsoft Power Apps]

|*Dynamics 365 for Financials* |Get a complete business and financial
management solution for small and medium-sized businesses. Dynamics 365
for Financials makes ordering, selling, invoicing, and reporting
easierâ€”starting on day one.
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841466[Microsoft Dynamics 365
for Financials]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841466[Microsoft Dynamics 365
for Financials]

|*Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations* |Increase your speed of doing
business. The complete ERP tools in Dynamics 365 for Operations provide
global scalability and digital intelligence to help you grow at your
pace. |https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841467[Microsoft
Dynamics 365 for Operations]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841467[Microsoft Dynamics 365
for Operations]

|*Microsoft AppSource* |Microsoft AppSource is a destination for
software-as-a-service business apps built on the Microsoft cloud
platform. AppSource features hundreds of apps, add-ons, and content
packs that extend the functionality of Microsoft products like Azure,
Dynamics 365, Office 365, and Power BI.
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841474[Microsoft AppSource]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841474[Microsoft AppSource]

|*Microsoft Partner Incentives* |The Microsoft Partner Network provides
three types of memberships. Each type provides a set of benefits to help
your business grow. As you achieve your goals, participate in the
program at the level that suits your unique needs to access more
benefits and develop your relationship with us and other partners in the
network. |https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841469[Microsoft
Partner Incentives]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841469[Microsoft Partner
Incentives]

|*Microsoft Business Center* |The Microsoft Business Center is the
portal for customers who have made purchases through the Microsoft
Products and Services Agreement (MPSA).
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841479[Quick Start: Register
for the Microsoft Business Center]
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841470[Microsoft Business
Center]

|*Microsoft Volume License Service Center* |The Microsoft Volume License
Service Center displays licenses purchased under Enterprise, Select,
Education (Campus or School), Open Value, Open License, and ISV Royalty
agreements.
|https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/Licensing/existing-customer/vlsc-training-and-resources.aspx[VLSC
Training and Resources]
|https://www.microsoft.com/Licensing/servicecenter/default.aspx[Volume
License Service Center]

|*Minecraft Education Edition* |By using Minecraft as a platform for
learning, educators can motivate and inspire every student to achieve
more, and ignite a passion for learning. Join a community of educators
learning how to use Minecraft to unlock student potential.
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841480[Minecraft Education
Edition] |https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841471[Minecraft
Education Edition]

|*Microsoft Stream* |Upload and share videos across your organization to
improve communication, participation, and learning.
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841472[Sign up & Day 0
experience] |https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841473[Microsoft
Stream]

|*Power Automate* |Power Automate is a product to help you set up
automated workflows between your favorite apps and services to
synchronize files, get notifications, collect data, and more.
|link:/power-automate/sign-up-sign-in[Sign up and sign in for Power
Automate] |https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=841465[Power
Automate]

|*Power Virtual Agents* |Power Virtual Agents empowers teams to easily
create powerful bots using a guided, no-code graphical interface without
the need for data scientists or developers. Power Virtual Agents
addresses many of the major issues with bot building in the industry
today. It eliminates the gap between the subject matter experts and the
development teams building the bots, and the long latency between teams
recognizing an issue and updating the bot to address it.
|link:/power-virtual-agents/requirements-licensing[Licensing and access
details] |https://aka.ms/TryPVA[Sign up for Power Virtual Agents]

|*Azure AD B2B* |Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) business-to-business
(B2B) collaboration lets you invite External Users (or ``guest users'')
to use your paid Azure AD services. Some features are free, but for any
paid Azure AD features, you can invite up to five guest users for each
Azure AD edition license that you own for an employee or a non-guest
user in your tenant.
|link:/azure/active-directory/b2b/self-service-portal[Self-service for
Azure AD B2B collaboration sign-up]
|link:/azure/active-directory/b2b/licensing-guidance[Azure Active
Directory B2B collaboration licensing guidance]
|===
