= 
kwekuako

== Set buffer time in Microsoft Bookings

Some of your appointments might require time before or after you meet
with your customer to set up, clean up, or reset your room and
equipment. Or if you’re on the road between customer appointments, you
may need time to ensure you and your team can travel between
appointments without making the customer wait.

You can set buffer time before appointments start, after appointments
end, or both to give staff the extra time they need to prepare for their
next appointment.

=== Set buffer time defaults

Buffer time defaults are set on the *Service details* page in Bookings.
Like all service defaults set on this page, these defaults can be edited
by you for a specific booking to meet specific customer needs.

The buffer time setting can be found on the *Service details* page.
Before it can be set for a given service, you must enable the buffer
time setting by selecting the buffer time toggle. This causes the
*Before* and *After* drop-downs to appear, which are used to pick the
default amount of time to hold before and after each booking, as shown
here:

image::../media/bookings-buffertime.png[Image of Bookings with buffer
time enabled.]

=== Buffer time and availability

Your customers don’t directly see and cannot change the buffer times you
set. However, because buffer time is used to calculate overall service
duration, customers will see you and your relevant staff as booked
during both buffer and regular appointment times. Customers also only
see availability for you and your staff if there is enough time for both
the appointment and its buffer time.

As an example, a one-hour appointment with a 15-minute pre-appointment
buffer time requires an available time block of at least 1 hour and 15
minutes. An appointment for this service would therefore fill a
75-minute block of time on your calendar and needs 75 minutes of
availability to book without conflict.
