= 
dansimp
:keywords: Microsoft Defender for Endpoint tvm remediation, Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint tvm, threat and vulnerability management, threat &
vulnerability management, threat & vulnerability management remediation,
tvm remediation intune, tvm remediation sccm, mdvm, Microsoft Defender
Vulnerability Management

== Create and view exceptions for security recommendations

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:*

* https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2]
* link:index.yml[Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management]
* https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804[Microsoft 365
Defender]

{empty}[!includelink:../../includes/prerelease.md[Prerelease
information]]

____
[!Note] Want to experience Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management?
Learn more about how you can sign up to the
link:../defender-vulnerability-management/get-defender-vulnerability-management.md[Microsoft
Defender Vulnerability Management public preview trial].
____

As an alternative to a remediation request when a recommendation is not
relevant at the moment, you can create exceptions for recommendations.
If your organization has device groups, you will be able to scope the
exception to specific device groups. Exceptions can either be created
for selected device groups, or for all device groups past and present.

When an exception is created for a recommendation, the recommendation
will not be active until the end of the exception duration. The
recommendation state will change to *Full exception* or *Partial
exception* (by device group).

=== Permissions

Only users with ``exceptions handling'' permissions can manage
exceptions (including creating or canceling).
link:../defender-endpoint/user-roles.md[Learn more about RBAC roles].

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-permissions.png[View
of exception handling permission.]

=== Create an exception

Select a security recommendation you would like to create an exception
for, and then select *Exception options* and fill out the form.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-options.png[Showing
where the button for ``exception options'' is location in a security
recommendation flyout.]

==== Exception by device group

Apply the exception to all current device groups or choose specific
device groups. Future device groups wonâ€™t be included in the exception.
Device groups that already have an exception will not be displayed in
the list. If you only select certain device groups, the recommendation
state will change from ``active'' to ``partial exception.'' The state
will change to ``full exception'' if you select all the device groups.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-device-group-500.png[Showing
device group dropdown.]

===== Filtered views

If you have filtered by device group on any of the vulnerability
management pages, only your filtered device groups will appear as
options.

This is the button to filter by device group on any of the vulnerability
management pages:

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-selected-device-groups.png[Showing
selected device groups filter.]

Exception view with filtered device groups:

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-device-filter500.png[Showing
filtered device group dropdown.]

===== Large number of device groups

If your organization has more than 20 device groups, select *Edit* next
to the filtered device group option.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-edit-groups.png[Showing
how to edit large numbers of groups.]

A flyout will appear where you can search and choose device groups you
want included. Select the check mark icon below Search to check/uncheck
all.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-device-group-flyout-400.png[Showing
large device group flyout.]

==== Global exceptions

If you have global administrator permissions, you will be able to create
and cancel a global exception. It affects *all* current and future
device groups in your organization, and only a user with similar
permission would be able to change it. The recommendation state will
change from ``active'' to ``full exception.''

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-global.png[Showing
global exception option.]

Some things to keep in mind:

* If a recommendation is under global exception, then newly created
exceptions for device groups will be suspended until the global
exception has expired or been canceled. After that point, the new device
group exceptions will go into effect until they expire.
* If a recommendation already has exceptions for specific device groups
and a global exception is created, then the device group exception will
be suspended until it expires or the global exception is canceled before
it expires.

==== Justification

Select your justification for the exception you need to file instead of
remediating the security recommendation in question. Fill out the
justification context, then set the exception duration.

The following list details the justifications behind the exception
options:

* *Third party control* - A third party product or software already
addresses this recommendation - Choosing this justification type will
lower your exposure score and increase your secure score because your
risk is reduced
* *Alternate mitigation* - An internal tool already addresses this
recommendation - Choosing this justification type will lower your
exposure score and increase your secure score because your risk is
reduced
* *Risk accepted* - Poses low risk and/or implementing the
recommendation is too expensive
* *Planned remediation (grace)* - Already planned but is awaiting
execution or authorization

=== View all exceptions

Navigate to the *Exceptions* tab in the *Remediation* page. You can
filter by justification, type, and status.

Select an exception to open a flyout with more details. Exceptions per
devices group will have a list of every device group the exception
covers, which you can export. You can also view the related
recommendation or cancel the exception.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-view.png[Showing
the ``Exceptions'' tab in the Remediation page.]

=== How to cancel an exception

To cancel an exception, navigate to the *Exceptions* tab in the
*Remediation* page. Select the exception.

To cancel the exception for all device groups or for a global exception,
select the *Cancel exception for all device groups* button. You will
only be able to cancel exceptions for device groups you have permissions
for.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-cancel.png[The
cancel button.]

==== Cancel the exception for a specific device group

Select the specific device group to cancel the exception for it. A
flyout will appear for the device group, and you can select *Cancel
exception*.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-exception-device-group-hover.png[Showing
how to select a specific device group.]

=== View impact after exceptions are applied

In the Security Recommendations page, select *Customize columns* and
check the boxes for *Exposed devices (after exceptions)* and *Impact
(after exceptions)*.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-after-exceptions.png[Showing
customize columns options.]

The exposed devices (after exceptions) column shows the remaining
devices that are still exposed to vulnerabilities after exceptions are
applied. Exception justifications that affect the exposure include
`third party control' and `alternate mitigation'. Other justifications
do not reduce the exposure of a device, and they are still considered
exposed.

The impact (after exceptions) shows remaining impact to exposure score
or secure score after exceptions are applied. Exception justifications
that affect the scores include `third party control' and `alternate
mitigation.' Other justifications do not reduce the exposure of a
device, and so the exposure score and secure score do not change.

image::../../media/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-after-exceptions-table.png[Showing
the columns in the table.]

=== Related topics

* link:tvm-remediation.md[Remediate vulnerabilities]
* link:tvm-security-recommendation.md[Security recommendations]
* link:tvm-exposure-score.md[Exposure score]
* link:tvm-microsoft-secure-score-devices.md[Microsoft Secure Score for
Devices]
