= 
mjcaparas
:keywords: api, explorer, send, request, get, post,

== API Explorer

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2]

The Microsoft Defender for Endpoint API Explorer is a tool that helps
you explore various Defender for Endpoint APIs interactively.

The API Explorer makes it easy to construct and do API queries, test,
and send requests for any available Defender for Endpoint API endpoint.
Use the API Explorer to take actions or find data that might not yet be
available through the user interface.

The tool is useful during app development. It allows you to perform API
queries that respect your user access settings, reducing the need to
generate access tokens.

You can also use the tool to explore the gallery of sample queries, copy
result code samples, and generate debug information.

With the API Explorer, you can:

* Run requests for any method and see responses in real-time.
* Quickly browse through the API samples and learn what parameters they
support.
* Make API calls with ease; no need to authenticate beyond the
management portal signin.

=== Access API Explorer

From the left navigation menu, select *Partners & APIs* >
*https://security.microsoft.com/interoperability/api-explorer[API
Explorer]*.

=== Supported APIs

API Explorer supports all the APIs offered by Defender for Endpoint.

The list of supported APIs is available in the link:apis-intro.md[APIs
documentation].

=== Get started with the API Explorer

[arabic]
. In the left pane, there is a list of sample requests that you can use.
. Follow the links and click *Run query*.

Some of the samples may require specifying a parameter in the URL, for
example, \{machine- ID}.

=== FAQ

*Do I need to have an API token to use the API Explorer?* Credentials to
access an API arenâ€™t needed. The API Explorer uses the Defender for
Endpoint management portal token whenever it makes a request.

The logged-in user authentication credential is used to verify that the
API Explorer is authorized to access data on your behalf.

Specific API requests are limited based on your RBAC privileges. For
example, a request to ``Submit indicator'' is limited to the security
admin role.
