= 
mjcaparas
:keywords: configure siem, security information and events management
tools, splunk, arcsight, custom indicators, rest api, alert definitions,
indicators of compromise

== Migrate from the MDE SIEM API to the Microsoft 365 Defender alerts API

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 1] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804[Microsoft 365 Defender]

=== Use the new Microsoft 365 Defender API for all your alerts

____
[!IMPORTANT] In February we announced the
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-defender-for-endpoint/deprecating-the-legacy-siem-api-postponed/ba-p/3139643[Deprecation
of the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint (MDE) SIEM API would be
postponed]. After gathering customer feedback, we have learned there are
challenges with the timeline originally communicated. As a result, we
are making changes to our timeline to improve our customersâ€™ experience
in migrating to the new API. The new Microsoft 365 Defender alerts API,
released to public preview in MS Graph, is the official and recommended
API for customers migrating from the SIEM API. This API will enable
customers to work with alerts across all Microsoft 365 Defender products
using a single integration. We expect the new API to reach general
availability (GA) by Q1 CY 2023. To provide customers with more time to
plan and prepare their migration to the new Microsoft 365 Defender APIs,
we have pushed the SIEM API deprecation date to December 31, 2023. This
will give customers one year from the expected GA release of Microsoft
365 Defender APIs to migrate from the SIEM API. At the time of
deprecation, the SIEM API will be declared ``deprecated'' but not
``retired.'' This means that until this date, the SIEM API will continue
to function for existing customers. After the deprecation date, the SIEM
API will continue to be available, however it will only be supported for
security-related fixes. Effective December 31st, 2024, three years after
the original deprecation announcement, we reserve the right to turn off
the SIEM API, without additional notice.
____

For additional information about the new APIs see the blog announcement:
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-365-defender-blog/the-new-microsoft-365-defender-apis-in-microsoft-graph-are-now/ba-p/3603099[The
new Microsoft 365 Defender APIs in Microsoft Graph are now available in
public preview!]

API documentation:
link:/graph/api/resources/security-api-overview#alerts-and-incidents-preview[Use
the Microsoft Graph security API - Microsoft Graph beta]

If you are a customer using the SIEM API, we strongly recommend planning
and executing the migration. Listed below is information about the
options available to migrate to a supported capability:

[arabic]
. link:#pulling-defender-for-endpoint-alerts-into-an-external-system[Pulling
MDE alerts into an external system] (SIEM/SOAR)
. link:#calling-the-microsoft-365-defender-alerts-api-directly[Calling
the Microsoft 365 Defender alerts API directly]

Read about the new Microsoft 365 Defender
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-365-defender-blog/the-new-microsoft-365-defender-apis-in-microsoft-graph-are-now/ba-p/3603099#:~:text=Incidents%3A%20Contain%20incident%20metadata%20and%20a%20collection%20of,richer%20and%20actionable%20information%20for%20your%20automation%20flows.[alerts
and incidents API]

==== Pulling Defender for Endpoint alerts into an external system

If you are pulling Defender for Endpoint alerts into an external system,
there are various supported options to give organizations the
flexibility to work with the solution of their choice:

[arabic]
. *Microsoft Sentinel* is a scalable, cloud-native, SIEM and Security
orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) solution. Delivers
intelligent security analytics and threat intelligence across the
enterprise, providing a single solution for attack detection, threat
visibility, proactive hunting, and threat response. The Microsoft 365
Defender connector allows customers to easily pull in all their
incidents and alerts from all Microsoft 365 Defender products. To learn
more about the integration, see
link:/azure/sentinel/microsoft-365-defender-sentinel-integration[Microsoft
365 Defender integration with Microsoft Sentinel].
. *IBM Security QRadar* SIEM provides centralized visibility and
intelligent security analytics to identify and prevent threats and
vulnerabilities from disrupting business operations.
https://community.ibm.com/community/user/security/blogs/gaurav-sharma/2022/10/18/ibm-qradar-and-microsoft-defender[QRadar
SIEM team has just announced the release of a new DSM] that is
integrated with the new Microsoft 365 Defender alerts API to pull in
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint alerts. New customers are welcome to
take advantage of the new DSM upon release. Learn more about the new DSM
and how to easily migrate to it at
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/dsm?topic=microsoft-365-defender[Microsoft
365 Defender - IBM Documentation].
. *Splunk SOAR* helps customers orchestrate workflows and automate tasks
in seconds to work smarter and respond faster. Splunk SOAR is integrated
with the new Microsoft 365 Defender APIs, including the alerts API. For
more information, see https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/6563[Microsoft
365 Defender | Splunkbase]

Additional integrations are listed in
link:technological-partners.md[Technological partners of Microsoft 365
Defender], or contact your SIEM / SOAR provider to learn about
integrations they may provide.

==== Calling the Microsoft 365 Defender alerts API directly

The below table provides a mapping between the SIEM API to the Microsoft
365 Defender alerts API:

[width="100%",cols="<32%,^38%,<30%",options="header",]
|===
|SIEM API property |Mapping |Microsoft 365 Defender alert API property
|AlertTime |-> |createdDateTime

|ComputerDnsName |-> |evidence/deviceEvidence: deviceDnsName

|AlertTitle |-> |title

|Category |-> |category

|Severity |-> |severity

|AlertId |-> |id

|Actor |-> |actorDisplayName

|LinkToWDATP |-> |alertWebUrl

|IocName |X |IoC fields not supported

|IocValue |X |IoC fields not supported

|CreatorIocName |X |IoC fields not supported

|CreatorIocValue |X |IoC fields not supported

|Sha1 |-> |evidence/fileEvidence/fileDetails: sha1 (or
evidence/processEvidence/imageFile: sha1)

|FileName |-> |evidence/fileEvidence/fileDetails: fileName (or
evidence/processEvidence/image: fileName)

|FilePath |-> |evidence/fileEvidence/fileDetails: filePath (or
evidence/processEvidence/image: filePath)

|IPAddress |-> |evidence/ipEvidence: ipAddress

|URL |-> |evidence/urlEvidence: url

|IoaDefinitionId |-> |detectorId

|UserName |-> |evidence/userEvidence/userAccount: accountName

|AlertPart |X |Obsolete (MDE alerts are atomic/complete that are
updatable, while the SIEM API were immutable records of detections)

|FullId |X |IoC fields not supported

|LastProcessedTimeUtc |-> |lastActivityDateTime

|ThreatCategory |-> |mitreTechniques []

|ThreatFamilyName |-> |threatFamilyName

|ThreatName |-> |threatDisplayName

|RemediationAction |-> |evidence: remediationStatus

|RemediationIsSuccess |-> |evidence: remediationStatus (implied)

|Source |-> |detectionSource (use with serviceSource:
microsoftDefenderForEndpoint)

|Md5 |X |Not supported

|Sha256 |-> |evidence/fileEvidence/fileDetails: sha256 (or
evidence/processEvidence/imageFile: sha256)

|WasExecutingWhileDetected |-> |evidence/processEvidence:
detectionStatus

|UserDomain |-> |evidence/userEvidence/userAccount: domainName

|LogOnUsers |-> |evidence/deviceEvidence: loggedOnUsers []

|MachineDomain |-> |Included in evidence/deviceEvidence: deviceDnsName

|MachineName |-> |Included in evidence/deviceEvidence: deviceDnsName

|InternalIPV4List |X |Not supported

|InternalIPV6List |X |Not supported

|FileHash |-> |Use sha1 or sha256

|DeviceID |-> |evidence/deviceEvidence: mdeDeviceId

|MachineGroup |-> |evidence/deviceEvidence: rbacGroupName

|Description |-> |description

|DeviceCreatedMachineTags |-> |evidence: tags [] (for deviceEvidence)

|CloudCreatedMachineTags |-> |evidence: tags [] (for deviceEvidence)

|CommandLine |-> |evidence/processEvidence: processCommandLine

|IncidentLinkToWDATP |-> |incidentWebUrl

|ReportId |X |Obsolete (MDE alerts are atomic/complete that are
updatable, while the SIEM API were immutable records of detections)

|LinkToMTP |-> |alertWebUrl

|IncidentLinkToMTP |-> |incidentWebUrl

|ExternalId |X |Obsolete

|IocUniqueId |X |IoC fields not supported
|===

=== Ingest alerts using security information and events management (SIEM) tools

____
{empty}[!NOTE]

link:alerts.md[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Alert] is composed from
one or more suspicious or malicious events that occurred on the device
and their related details. The Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Alert API
is the latest API for alert consumption and contains a detailed list of
related evidence for each alert. For more information, see
link:alerts.md[Alert methods and properties] and link:get-alerts.md[List
alerts].
____

Microsoft Defender for Endpoint supports security information and event
management (SIEM) tools ingesting information from your enterprise
tenant in Azure Active Directory (AAD) using the OAuth 2.0
authentication protocol for a registered AAD application representing
the specific SIEM solution or connector installed in your environment.

For more information, see:

* link:api-terms-of-use.md[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint APIs license
and terms of use]
* link:apis-intro.md[Access the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint APIs]
* link:api-hello-world.md[Hello World example (describes how to register
an application in Azure Active Directory)]
* link:exposed-apis-create-app-webapp.md[Get access with application
context]
* link:../defender/configure-siem-defender.md[Microsoft 365 Defender
SIEM integration]
