= 
vpattnai
:keywords: Endpoint Attack Notification, managed threat hunting, managed
detection and response (MDR) service, MTE, Microsoft Threat Experts,
endpoint attack notification, Ask Defender Experts, experts on demand

== Endpoint Attack Notifications

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804[Microsoft 365 Defender]

____
Want to experience Microsoft Defender for Endpoint?
https://signup.microsoft.com/create-account/signup?products=7f379fee-c4f9-4278-b0a1-e4c8c2fcdf7e&ru=https://aka.ms/MDEp2OpenTrial?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink[Sign
up for a free trial.]
____

____
[!NOTE] This covers threat hunting on your Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint service. However, if you’re interested to explore the service
beyond your current license, and proactively hunt threats not just on
endpoints but also across Office 365, cloud applications, and identity,
refer to
link:/microsoft-365/security/defender/defender-experts-for-hunting[Microsoft
Defender Experts for Hunting].
____

____
[!NOTE] Customers who signed up for Experts on Demand prior to sunset
will have access to Ask Defender Experts until the expiration of their
current contract.
____

Endpoint Attack Notifications (previously referred to as Microsoft
Threat Experts - Targeted Attack Notification) provides proactive
hunting for the most important threats to your network, including human
adversary intrusions, hands-on-keyboard attacks, or advanced attacks
like cyber-espionage. These notifications show up as a new alert. The
managed hunting service includes:

* Threat monitoring and analysis, reducing dwell time and risk to the
business
* Hunter-trained artificial intelligence to discover and prioritize both
known and unknown attacks
* Identifying the most important risks, helping SOCs maximize time and
energy
* Scope of compromise and as much context as can be quickly delivered to
enable fast SOC response

image::../../media/defender-endpoint/endpoint-attack-notification-alert.png[Screenshot
of the Endpoint Attack Notifications alert]

=== Apply for Endpoint Attack Notifications

If you’re a Microsoft Defender for Endpoint customer, you can apply for
Endpoint Attack Notifications. Go to *Settings* > *Endpoints* >
*General* > *Advanced features* > *Endpoint Attack Notifications* to
apply. Once accepted, you’ll get the benefits of Endpoint Attack
Notifications.

image::../../media/defender-endpoint/enable-endpoint-attack-notifications.png[How
to enable Endpoint Attack Notifications in 365 Defender Portal]

=== Receive Endpoint Attack notifications

Endpoint Attack Notifications are alerts that have been hand crafted by
Microsoft’s managed hunting service based on suspicious activity in your
environment. They can be viewed through several mediums: - The alerts
queue in the Microsoft 365 Defender portal - Using the
link:../../security/defender-endpoint/get-alerts.md[API] -
link:../../security/defender-endpoint/advanced-hunting-devicealertevents-table.md[DeviceAlertEvents]
table in Advanced hunting - Your email if you
link:../../security/defender-endpoint/configure-email-notifications.md[configure
an email notifications] rule

Endpoint Attack Notifications can be identified by: - Have a tag named
*Endpoint Attack Notification* - Have a service source of *Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint* > *Microsoft Defender Experts*

____
[!NOTE] If you have enrolled for Endpoint Attack Notifications but are
not seeing any alerts from the service, it indicates that you have a
strong security posture and are less prone to attacks.
____

=== Create an email notification rule

You can create rules to send email notifications for notification
recipients. See link:configure-email-notifications.md[Configure alert
notifications] to create, edit, delete, or troubleshoot email
notification, for details.

=== Next steps

* To proactively hunt threats across endpoints, Office 365, cloud
applications, and identity, refer to
link:../defender/defender-experts-for-hunting.md[Microsoft Defender
Experts for Hunting].
