= 
mjcaparas
:keywords: apis, supported apis, get, machines

== Machine resource type

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 1] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804[Microsoft 365 Defender]

____
Want to experience Microsoft Defender for Endpoint?
https://signup.microsoft.com/create-account/signup?products=7f379fee-c4f9-4278-b0a1-e4c8c2fcdf7e&ru=https://aka.ms/MDEp2OpenTrial?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink[Sign
up for a free trial.]
____

{empty}[!includelink:../../includes/microsoft-defender-api-usgov.md[Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint API URIs for US Government]]

{empty}[!includelink:../../includes/improve-request-performance.md[Improve
request performance]]

{empty}[!includelink:../../includes/prerelease.md[Prerelease
information]]

=== Methods

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Method |Return Type |Description
|link:get-machines.md[List machines] |link:machine.md[machine]
collection |List set of link:machine.md[machine] entities in the org.

|link:get-machine-by-id.md[Get machine] |link:machine.md[machine] |Get a
link:machine.md[machine] by its identity.

|link:get-machine-log-on-users.md[Get logged on users]
|link:user.md[user] collection |Get the set of link:user.md[User] that
logged on to the link:machine.md[machine].

|link:get-machine-related-alerts.md[Get related alerts]
|link:alerts.md[alert] collection |Get the set of link:alerts.md[alert]
entities that were raised on the link:machine.md[machine].

|link:get-installed-software.md[Get installed software]
|link:software.md[software] collection |Retrieves a collection of
installed software related to a given machine ID.

|link:get-discovered-vulnerabilities.md[Get discovered vulnerabilities]
|link:vulnerability.md[vulnerability] collection |Retrieves a collection
of discovered vulnerabilities related to a given machine ID.

|link:get-security-recommendations.md[Get security recommendations]
|link:recommendation.md[recommendation] collection |Retrieves a
collection of security recommendations related to a given machine ID.

|link:add-or-remove-machine-tags.md[Add or Remove machine tags]
|link:machine.md[machine] |Add or Remove tag to a specific machine.

|link:find-machines-by-ip.md[Find machines by IP]
|link:machine.md[machine] collection |Find machines seen with IP.

|link:find-machines-by-tag.md[Find machines by tag]
|link:machine.md[machine] collection |Find machines by
link:machine-tags.md[Tag].

|link:get-missing-kbs-machine.md[Get missing KBs] |KB collection |Get a
list of missing KBs associated with the machine ID

|link:set-device-value.md[Set device value] |link:machine.md[machine]
collection |Set the link:tvm-assign-device-value.md[value of a device].

|link:update-machine-method.md[Update machine] |link:machine.md[machine]
collection |Get the update status of a machine.
|===

=== Properties

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Property |Type |Description
|id |String |link:machine.md[machine] identity.

|computerDnsName |String |link:machine.md[machine] fully qualified name.

|firstSeen |DateTimeOffset |First date and time where the
link:machine.md[machine] was observed by Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint.

|lastSeen |DateTimeOffset |Time and date of the last received full
device report. A device typically sends a full report every 24 hours.

|osPlatform |String |Operating system platform.

|onboardingstatus |String |Status of machine onboarding. Possible values
are: ``onboarded'', ``CanBeOnboarded'', ``Unsupported'', and
``InsufficientInfo''.

|osProcessor |String |Operating system processor. Use osArchitecture
property instead.

|version |String |Operating system Version.

|osBuild |Nullable long |Operating system build number.

|lastIpAddress |String |Last IP on local NIC on the
link:machine.md[machine].

|lastExternalIpAddress |String |Last IP through which the
link:machine.md[machine] accessed the internet.

|healthStatus |Enum |link:machine.md[machine] health status. Possible
values are: ``Active'', ``Inactive'', ``ImpairedCommunication'',
``NoSensorData'', ``NoSensorDataImpairedCommunication'' and ``Unknown''.

|rbacGroupName |String |Machine group Name.

|rbacGroupId |String |Machine group ID.

|riskScore |Nullable Enum |Risk score as evaluated by Microsoft Defender
for Endpoint. Possible values are: `None', `Informational', `Low',
`Medium' and `High'.

|aadDeviceId |Nullable representation Guid |AAD Device ID (when
link:machine.md[machine] is AAD Joined).

|machineTags |String collection |Set of link:machine.md[machine] tags.

|exposureLevel |Nullable Enum |Exposure level as evaluated by Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint. Possible values are: `None', `Low', `Medium' and
`High'.

|deviceValue |Nullable Enum |The link:tvm-assign-device-value.md[value
of the device]. Possible values are: `Normal', `Low' and `High'.

|ipAddresses |IpAddress collection |Set of *_IpAddress_* objects. See
link:get-machines.md[Get machines API].

|osArchitecture |String |Operating system architecture. Possible values
are: ``32-bit'', ``64-bit''. Use this property instead of osProcessor.
|===
