= 
mjcaparas
:keywords: update, update process, controls, release

== Manage the gradual rollout process for Microsoft Defender updates

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2] - Microsoft Defender Antivirus

*Platforms* - Windows

It is important to ensure that client components are up-to-date to
deliver critical protection capabilities and prevent attacks.

Capabilities are provided through several components:

* link:overview-endpoint-detection-response.md[Endpoint Detection &
Response]
* link:microsoft-defender-antivirus-windows.md[Next-generation
protection] with
link:cloud-protection-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[cloud-delivered
protection]
* link:overview-attack-surface-reduction.md[Attack Surface Reduction]

Updates are released monthly using a gradual release process. This
process helps to enable early failure detection to catch impact as it
occurs and address it quickly before a larger rollout.

____
[!NOTE] For more information on how to control daily security
intelligence updates, see
link:manage-protection-update-schedule-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[Schedule
Microsoft Defender Antivirus protection updates]. Updates ensure that
next-generation protection can defend against new threats, even if
cloud-delivered protection is not available to the endpoint.
____

=== Microsoft gradual rollout model

The following gradual rollout model is followed for monthly Defender
updates:

[arabic]
. The first release goes out to Beta channel subscribers.
. After validation, feedback, and fixes, we start the gradual rollout
process in a throttled way and to Preview channel subscribers first.
. We then proceed to release the update to the rest of the global
population, scaling out from 10-100%.

Our engineers continuously monitor impact and escalate any issues to
create a fix as needed.

=== How to customize your internal deployment process

If your machines are receiving Defender updates from Windows Update, the
gradual rollout process may result in some of your machines receiving
Defender updates sooner than others. The following section explains how
to define a strategy that will allow automatic updates to flow
differently to specific groups of devices by leveraging update channel
configuration.

____
[!NOTE] When planning for your own gradual release, please make sure to
always have a selection of devices subscribed to the preview and staged
channels. This will provide your organization as well as Microsoft the
opportunity to prevent or find and fix issues specific to your
environment.
____

For machines receiving updates through, for example, Windows Server
Update Services (WSUS) or Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager
(MECM), more options are available to all Windows updates, including
options for Microsoft Defender for Endpoint.

* Read more about how to use a solution like WSUS, MECM to manage the
distribution and application of updates at
link:manage-updates-baselines-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md#product-updates[Manage
Microsoft Defender Antivirus updates and apply baselines - Windows
security].

=== Update channels for monthly updates

You can assign a machine to an update channel to define the cadence in
which a machine receives monthly engine and platform updates.

For more information on how to configure updates, see
link:configure-updates.md[Create a custom gradual rollout process for
Microsoft Defender updates].

The following update channels are available:

'''''

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Channel name |Description |Application
|Beta Channel - Prerelease |Test updates before others |Devices set to
this channel will be the first to receive new monthly updates. Select
Beta Channel to participate in identifying and reporting issues to
Microsoft. Devices in the Windows Insider Program are subscribed to this
channel by default. For use in test environments only.

|Current Channel (Preview) |Get Current Channel updates *earlier* during
gradual release |Devices set to this channel will be offered updates
earliest during the gradual release cycle. Suggested for
pre-production/validation environments.

|Current Channel (Staged) |Get Current Channel updates later during
gradual release |Devices will be offered updates later during the
gradual release cycle. Suggested to apply to a small, representative
part of your device population (~10%).

|Current Channel (Broad) |Get updates at the end of gradual release
|Devices will be offered updates only after the gradual release cycle
completes. Suggested to apply to a broad set of devices in your
production population (~10-100%).

|Critical: Time Delay |Delay Defender updates |Devices will be offered
updates with a 48-hour delay. Best for datacenter machines that only
receive limited updates. Suggested for critical environments only.

|(default) | |If you disable or do not configure this policy, the device
will remain in Current Channel (Default): Stay up to date automatically
during the gradual release cycle. Suitable for most devices.

| | |
|===

==== Update channels for daily updates

You can also assign a machine to a channel to define the cadence in
which it receives daily updates. Note that unlike the monthly process,
there is no Beta channel and this gradual release cycle occurs multiple
times a day.

'''''

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Channel name |Description |Application
|Current Channel (Staged) |Get Current Channel updates later during
gradual release |Devices will be offered updates later during the
gradual release cycle. Suggested to apply to a small, representative
part of your device population (~10%).

|Current Channel (Broad) |Get updates at the end of gradual release
|Devices will be offered updates after the gradual release cycle. Best
for datacenter machines that only receive limited updates. Note: this
setting applies to all Defender updates.

|(default) | |If you disable or do not configure this policy, the device
will remain in Current Channel (Default): Stay up to date automatically
during the gradual release cycle. Suitable for most devices

| | |
|===

____
[!NOTE] In case you wish to force an update to the newest signature
instead of leveraging the time delay, you will need to remove this
policy first.
____

=== Update guidance

In most cases, the recommended configuration when using Windows Update
is to allow endpoints to receive and apply monthly Defender updates as
they arrive. This provides the best balance between protection and
possible impact associated with the changes they can introduce.

For environments where there is a need for a more controlled gradual
rollout of automatic Defender updates, consider an approach with
deployment groups:

[arabic]
. Participate in the Windows Insider program or assign a group of
devices to the Beta Channel.
. Designate a pilot group that opts-in to Preview Channel, typically
validation environments, to receive new updates early.
. Designate a group of machines that receive updates later during the
gradual rollout from Staged channel. Typically, this would be a
representative ~10% of the population.
. Designate a group of machines that receive updates after the gradual
release cycle completes. These are typically important production
systems.

For the remainder of devices, the default setting is to receive new
updates as they arrive during the Microsoft gradual rollout process and
no further configuration is required.

Adopting this model:

* Allows you to test early releases before they reach a production
environment
* Ensure the production environment still receives regular updates and
ensure protection against critical threats.

=== Management tools

To create your own custom gradual rollout process for monthly updates,
you can use the following tools:

* Group policy
* Microsoft Endpoint Manager
* PowerShell

For details on how to use these tools, see
link:configure-updates.md[Create a custom gradual rollout process for
Microsoft Defender updates].

____
{empty}[!TIP] If youâ€™re looking for Antivirus related information for
other platforms, see: - link:mac-preferences.md[Set preferences for
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on macOS] -
link:microsoft-defender-endpoint-mac.md[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
on Mac] -
link:/mem/intune/protect/antivirus-microsoft-defender-settings-macos[macOS
Antivirus policy settings for Microsoft Defender Antivirus for Intune] -
link:linux-preferences.md[Set preferences for Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint on Linux] - link:microsoft-defender-endpoint-linux.md[Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint on Linux] - link:android-configure.md[Configure
Defender for Endpoint on Android features] -
link:ios-configure-features.md[Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
on iOS features]
____
