= 
mjcaparas
:keywords: incidents, manage, assign, status, classification, true
alert, false alert

== Manage Microsoft Defender for Endpoint incidents

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 1] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804[Microsoft 365 Defender]

____
Want to experience Microsoft Defender for Endpoint?
https://signup.microsoft.com/create-account/signup?products=7f379fee-c4f9-4278-b0a1-e4c8c2fcdf7e&ru=https://aka.ms/MDEp2OpenTrial?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink[Sign
up for a free trial.]
____

Managing incidents is an important part of every cybersecurity
operation. You can manage incidents by selecting an incident from the
*Incidents queue* or the *Incidents management pane*.

Selecting an incident from the *Incidents queue* brings up the *Incident
management pane* where you can open the incident page for details.

:::image type=``content''
source=``images/atp-incidents-mgt-pane-updated.png'' alt-text=``The
incidents management pane''
lightbox=``images/atp-incidents-mgt-pane-updated.png'':::

You can assign incidents to yourself, change the status and
classification, rename, or comment on them to keep track of their
progress.

____
[!TIP] For additional visibility at a glance, incident names are
automatically generated based on alert attributes such as the number of
endpoints affected, users affected, detection sources or categories.
This allows you to quickly understand the scope of the incident.

For example: _Multi-stage incident on multiple endpoints reported by
multiple sources._

Incidents that existed prior the rollout of automatic incident naming
will retain their names.
____

:::image type=``content''
source=``images/atp-incident-details-updated.png'' alt-text=``The
incident detail page''
lightbox=``images/atp-incident-details-updated.png'':::

=== Assign incidents

If an incident has not been assigned yet, you can select *Assign to me*
to assign the incident to yourself. Doing so assumes ownership of not
just the incident, but also all the alerts associated with it.

=== Set status and classification

==== Incident status

You can categorize incidents (as *Active*, or *Resolved*) by changing
their status as your investigation progresses. This helps you organize
and manage how your team can respond to incidents.

For example, your SOC analyst can review the urgent *Active* incidents
for the day, and decide to assign them to himself for investigation.

Alternatively, your SOC analyst might set the incident as *Resolved* if
the incident has been remediated.

==== Classification

You can choose not to set a classification, or decide to specify whether
an incident is true or false. Doing so helps the team see patterns and
learn from them.

==== Add comments

You can add comments and view historical events about an incident to see
previous changes made to it.

Whenever a change or comment is made to an alert, it is recorded in the
Comments and history section.

Added comments instantly appear on the pane.

=== Related topics

* link:/microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/view-incidents-queue[Incidents
queue]
* link:view-incidents-queue.md[View and organize the Incidents queue]
* link:investigate-incidents.md[Investigate incidents]
