= 
DulceMontemayor
:keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, alerts, recent

== Recommendation resource type

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 1] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2]

Want to experience Defender for Endpoint?
https://signup.microsoft.com/create-account/signup?products=7f379fee-c4f9-4278-b0a1-e4c8c2fcdf7e&ru=https://aka.ms/MDEp2OpenTrial?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink[Sign
up for a free trial.]

{empty}[!includelink:../../includes/microsoft-defender-api-usgov.md[Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint API URIs for US Government]]

{empty}[!includelink:../../includes/improve-request-performance.md[Improve
request performance]]

{empty}[!includelink:../../includes/prerelease.md[Prerelease
information]]

=== Methods

'''''

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Method |Return Type |Description
|link:get-all-recommendations.md[List all recommendations]
|Recommendation collection |Retrieves a list of all security
recommendations affecting the organization

|link:get-recommendation-by-id.md[Get recommendation by ID]
|Recommendation |Retrieves a security recommendation by its ID

|link:list-recommendation-software.md[Get recommendation software]
|link:software.md[Software] |Retrieves a security recommendation related
to a specific software

|link:get-recommendation-machines.md[Get recommendation devices]
|MachineRef collection |Retrieves a list of devices associated with the
security recommendation

|link:get-recommendation-vulnerabilities.md[Get recommendation
vulnerabilities] |link:vulnerability.md[Vulnerability] collection
|Retrieves a list of vulnerabilities associated with the security
recommendation

| | |
|===

=== Properties

'''''

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Property |Type |Description
|id |String |Recommendation ID

|productName |String |Related software name

|recommendationName |String |Recommendation name

|Weaknesses |Long |Number of discovered vulnerabilities

|Vendor |String |Related vendor name

|recommendedVersion |String |Recommended version

|recommendedProgram |String |Recommended program

|recommendedVendor |String |Recommended vendor

|recommendationCategory |String |Recommendation category. Possible
values are: ``Accounts'', ``Application'', ``Network'', ``OS'',
``SecurityControls''

|subCategory |String |Recommendation sub-category

|severityScore |Double |Potential impact of the configuration to the
organizationâ€™s Microsoft Secure Score for Devices (1-10)

|publicExploit |Boolean |Public exploit is available

|activeAlert |Boolean |Active alert is associated with this
recommendation

|associatedThreats |String collection |Threat analytics report is
associated with this recommendation

|remediationType |String |Remediation type. Possible values are:
``ConfigurationChange'',``Update'',``Upgrade'',``Uninstall''

|Status |Enum |Recommendation exception status. Possible values are:
``Active'' and ``Exception''

|configScoreImpact |Double |Microsoft Secure Score for Devices impact

|exposureImpact |Double |Exposure score impact

|totalMachineCount |Long |Number of installed devices

|exposedMachinesCount |Long |Number of installed devices that are
exposed to vulnerabilities

|nonProductivityImpactedAssets |Long |Number of devices that are not
affected

|relatedComponent |String |Related software component

| | |
|===
