= 
mjcaparas
:keywords: microsoft 365 defender, conditional access, office, Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint, microsoft defender for identity, microsoft
defender for office, Microsoft Defender for Cloud, microsoft cloud app
security, azure sentinel

== Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and other Microsoft solutions

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2] -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804[Microsoft 365 Defender]

____
Want to experience Microsoft Defender for Endpoint?
https://signup.microsoft.com/create-account/signup?products=7f379fee-c4f9-4278-b0a1-e4c8c2fcdf7e&ru=https://aka.ms/MDEp2OpenTrial?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink[Sign
up for a free trial.]
____

=== Integrate with other Microsoft solutions

Microsoft Defender for Endpoint directly integrates with various
Microsoft solutions.

==== Microsoft Defender for Cloud

Microsoft Defender for Cloud provides a comprehensive server protection
solution, including endpoint detection and response (EDR) capabilities
on Windows Servers.

==== Microsoft Sentinel

The Microsoft Defender for Endpoint connector lets you stream alerts
from Microsoft Defender for Endpoint into Microsoft Sentinel. This will
enable you to more comprehensively analyze security events across your
organization and build playbooks for effective and immediate response.

==== Azure Information Protection

We recently deprecated the Azure Information Protection integration as
our Endpoint DLP capabilities incorporate an improved discovery and
protection solution for sensitive data stored on endpoint devices that
facilitates greater visibility and integration between solutions. This
was announced in the following
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-defender-for-endpoint/protecting-sensitive-information-on-devices/ba-p/2143555[blog].
We recommend that customers move to using Endpoint DLP.

==== Conditional Access

Microsoft Defender for Endpointâ€™s dynamic device risk score is
integrated into the Conditional Access evaluation, ensuring that only
secure devices have access to resources.

==== Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps

Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps leverages Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint signals to allow direct visibility into cloud application usage
including the use of unsupported cloud services (shadow IT) from all
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint monitored devices.

==== Microsoft Defender for Identity

Suspicious activities are processes running under a user context. The
integration between Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and Microsoft
Defender for Identity provides the flexibility of conducting cyber
security investigation across activities and identities.

==== Microsoft Defender for Office

link:/microsoft-365/security/office-365-security/defender-for-office-365[Defender
for Office 365] helps protect your organization from malware in email
messages or files through Safe Links, Safe Attachments, advanced
Anti-Phishing, and spoof intelligence capabilities. The integration
between Microsoft Defender for Office 365 and Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint enables security analysts to go upstream to investigate the
entry point of an attack. Through threat intelligence sharing, attacks
can be contained and blocked.

____
[!NOTE] Defender for Office 365 data is displayed for events within the
last 30 days. For alerts, Defender for Office 365 data is displayed
based on first activity time. After that, the data is no longer
available in Defender for Office 365.
____

==== Skype for Business

The Skype for Business integration provides a way for analysts to
communicate with a potentially compromised user or device owner through
a simple button from the portal.

=== Microsoft 365 Defender

With Microsoft 365 Defender, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, and
various Microsoft security solutions form a unified pre- and post-breach
enterprise defense suite that natively integrates across endpoint,
identity, email, and applications to detect, prevent, investigate, and
automatically respond to sophisticated attacks.

link:/microsoft-365/security/defender/microsoft-365-defender[Learn more
about Microsoft 365 Defender]

=== Related topics

* link:advanced-features.md[Configure integration and other advanced
features]
* link:/microsoft-365/security/defender/microsoft-365-defender[Microsoft
365 Defender overview]
* link:/microsoft-365/security/defender/m365d-enable[Turn on Microsoft
365 Defender]
* link:conditional-access.md[Protect users&#44; data&#44; and devices with
Conditional Access]
