= 
denisebmsft
:keywords: event, error code, siem, logging, troubleshooting, wef,
windows event forwarding

== Review event logs and error codes to troubleshoot issues with Microsoft Defender Antivirus

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint Plan 2] - Microsoft Defender Antivirus

*Platforms* - Windows

If you encounter a problem with Microsoft Defender Antivirus, you can
search the tables in this topic to find a matching issue and potential
solution.

The tables list:

* link:#windows-defender-av-ids[Microsoft Defender Antivirus event IDs]
(these apply to Windows 10, Windows 11, and Windows Server 2016)
* link:#error-codes[Microsoft Defender Antivirus client error codes]
* link:#internal-error-codes[Internal Microsoft Defender Antivirus
client error codes (used by Microsoft during development and testing)]

## Microsoft Defender Antivirus event IDs

Microsoft Defender Antivirus records event IDs in the Windows event log.

You can directly view the event log, or if you have a third-party
security information and event management (SIEM) tool, you can also
consume
link:troubleshoot-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md#windows-defender-av-ids[Microsoft
Defender Antivirus client event IDs] to review specific events and
errors from your endpoints.

The table in this section lists the main Microsoft Defender Antivirus
event IDs and, where possible, provides suggested solutions to fix or
resolve the error.

=== To view a Microsoft Defender Antivirus event

[arabic]
. Open *Event Viewer*.
. In the console tree, expand *Applications and Services Logs*, then
*Microsoft*, then *Windows*, then *Windows Defender*.
. Double-click on *Operational*.
. In the details pane, view the list of individual events to find your
event.
. Click the event to see specific details about an event in the lower
pane, under the *General* and *Details* tabs.

Event ID: 1000

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SCAN_STARTED

Message:

An antimalware scan started.

Description:

Scan ID: <ID number of the relevant scan.>

Scan Type: <Scan type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Scan Parameters: <Scan parameters>, for example:

Full scan

Quick scan

Customer scan

Scan Resources: <Resources (such as files/directories/BHO) that were
scanned.>

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Event ID: 1001

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SCAN_COMPLETED

Message:

An antimalware scan finished.

Description:

Scan ID: <ID number of the relevant scan.>

Scan Type: <Scan type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Scan Parameters: <Scan parameters>, for example:

Full scan

Quick scan

Customer scan

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Scan Time: <The duration of a scan.>

Event ID: 1002

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SCAN_CANCELLED

Message:

An antimalware scan was stopped before it finished.

Description:

Scan ID: <ID number of the relevant scan.>

Scan Type: <Scan type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Scan Parameters: <Scan parameters>, for example:

Full scan

Quick scan

Customer scan

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Scan Time: <The duration of a scan.>

Event ID: 1003

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SCAN_PAUSED

Message:

An antimalware scan was paused.

Description:

Scan ID: <ID number of the relevant scan.>

Scan Type: <Scan type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Scan Parameters: <Scan parameters>, for example:

Full scan

Quick scan

Customer scan

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Event ID: 1004

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SCAN_RESUMED

Message:

An antimalware scan was resumed.

Description:

Scan ID: <ID number of the relevant scan.>

Scan Type: <Scan type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Scan Parameters: <Scan parameters>, for example:

Full scan

Quick scan

Customer scan

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Event ID: 1005

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SCAN_FAILED

Message:

An antimalware scan failed.

Description:

Scan ID: <ID number of the relevant scan.>

Scan Type: <Scan type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Scan Parameters: <Scan parameters>, for example:

Full scan

Quick scan

Customer scan

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

User action:

The antivirus client encountered an error, and the current scan has
stopped. The scan might fail due to a client-side issue. This event
record includes the scan ID, type of scan (Microsoft Defender Antivirus,
antispyware, antimalware), scan parameters, the user that started the
scan, the error code, and a description of the error. To troubleshoot
this event:

Run the scan again.

If it fails in the same way, go to the Microsoft Support site, enter the
error number in the Search box to look for the error code.

Contact Microsoft Technical Support.

Event ID: 1006

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_MALWARE_DETECTED

Message:

The antimalware engine found malware or other potentially unwanted
software.

Description:

For more information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

Detection Origin: <Detection origin>, for example:

Unknown

Local computer

Network share

Internet

Incoming traffic

Outgoing traffic

Detection Type: <Detection type>, for example:

Heuristics

Generic

Concrete

Dynamic signature

Detection Source: <Detection source> for example:

User: user initiated

System: system initiated

Real-time: real-time component initiated

IOAV: IE Downloads and Outlook Express Attachments initiated

NIS: Network inspection system

IEPROTECT: IE - IExtensionValidation; this protects against malicious
webpage controls

Early Launch Antimalware (ELAM). This includes malware detected by the
boot sequence

Remote attestation

Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI). Primarily used to protect scripts
(PowerShell, VBS), though it can be invoked by third parties as well.
UAC

Status: <Status>

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Process Name: <Process in the PID>

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Event ID: 1007

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_MALWARE_ACTION_TAKEN

Message:

The antimalware platform performed an action to protect your system from
malware or other potentially unwanted software.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has taken action to protect this machine
from malware or other potentially unwanted software. For more
information, see the following:

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Action: <Action>, for example:

Clean: The resource was cleaned

Quarantine: The resource was quarantined

Remove: The resource was deleted

Allow: The resource was allowed to execute/exist

User defined: User-defined action that is normally one from this list of
actions that the user has specified

No action: No action

Block: The resource was blocked from executing

Status: <Status>

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Event ID: 1008

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_MALWARE_ACTION_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware platform attempted to perform an action to protect your
system from malware or other potentially unwanted software, but the
action failed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error when taking action
on malware or other potentially unwanted software. For more information,
see the following:

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

Action: <Action>, for example:

Clean: The resource was cleaned

Quarantine: The resource was quarantined

Remove: The resource was deleted

Allow: The resource was allowed to execute/exist

User defined: User-defined action that is normally one from this list of
actions that the user has specified

No action: No action

Block: The resource was blocked from executing

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Status: <Status>

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Event ID: 1009

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_QUARANTINE_RESTORE

Message:

The antimalware platform restored an item from quarantine.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has restored an item from quarantine. For
more information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Event ID: 1010

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_QUARANTINE_RESTORE_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware platform could not restore an item from quarantine.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to restore
an item from quarantine. For more information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Event ID: 1011

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_QUARANTINE_DELETE

Message:

The antimalware platform deleted an item from quarantine.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has deleted an item from quarantine.For
more information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Event ID: 1012

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_QUARANTINE_DELETE_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware platform could not delete an item from quarantine.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to delete
an item from quarantine. For more information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Event ID: 1013

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_MALWARE_HISTORY_DELETE

Message:

The antimalware platform deleted history of malware and other
potentially unwanted software.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has removed history of malware and other
potentially unwanted software.

Time: The time when the event occurred, for example when the history is
purged. This parameter is not used in threat events so that there is no
confusion regarding whether it is remediation time or infection time.
For those, we specifically call them as Action Time or Detection Time.

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Event ID: 1014

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_MALWARE_HISTORY_DELETE_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware platform could not delete history of malware and other
potentially unwanted software.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to remove
history of malware and other potentially unwanted software.

Time: The time when the event occurred, for example when the history is
purged. This parameter is not used in threat events so that there is no
confusion regarding whether it is remediation time or infection time.
For those, we specifically call them as Action Time or Detection Time.

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Event ID: 1015

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_BEHAVIOR_DETECTED

Message:

The antimalware platform detected suspicious behavior.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has detected a suspicious behavior.For more
information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

Detection Origin: <Detection origin>, for example:

Unknown

Local computer

Network share

Internet

Incoming traffic

Outgoing traffic

Detection Type: <Detection type>, for example:

Heuristics

Generic

Concrete

Dynamic signature

Detection Source: <Detection source> for example:

User: user initiated

System: system initiated

Real-time: real-time component initiated

IOAV: IE Downloads and Outlook Express Attachments initiated

NIS: Network inspection system

IEPROTECT: IE - IExtensionValidation; this protects against malicious
webpage controls

Early Launch Antimalware (ELAM). This includes malware detected by the
boot sequence

Remote attestation

Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI). Primarily used to protect scripts
(PowerShell, VBS), though it can be invoked by third parties as well.
UAC

Status: <Status>

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Process Name: <Process in the PID>

Signature ID: Enumeration matching severity.

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Fidelity Label:

Target File Name: <File name> Name of the file.

Event ID: 1116

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_STATE_MALWARE_DETECTED

Message:

The antimalware platform detected malware or other potentially unwanted
software.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has detected malware or other potentially
unwanted software.For more information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

Detection Origin: <Detection origin>, for example:

Unknown

Local computer

Network share

Internet

Incoming traffic

Outgoing traffic

Detection Type: <Detection type>, for example:

Heuristics

Generic

Concrete

Dynamic signature

Detection Source: <Detection source> for example:

User: user initiated

System: system initiated

Real-time: real-time component initiated

IOAV: IE Downloads and Outlook Express Attachments initiated

NIS: Network inspection system

IEPROTECT: IE - IExtensionValidation; this protects against malicious
webpage controls

Early Launch Antimalware (ELAM). This includes malware detected by the
boot sequence

Remote attestation

Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI). Primarily used to protect scripts
(PowerShell, VBS), though it can be invoked by third parties as well.
UAC

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Process Name: <Process in the PID>

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

User action:

No action is required. Microsoft Defender Antivirus can suspend and take
routine action on this threat. If you want to remove the threat
manually, in the Microsoft Defender Antivirus interface, click Clean
Computer.

Event ID: 1117

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_STATE_MALWARE_ACTION_TAKEN

Message:

The antimalware platform performed an action to protect your system from
malware or other potentially unwanted software.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has taken action to protect this machine
from malware or other potentially unwanted software.For more
information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

Detection Origin: <Detection origin>, for example:

Unknown

Local computer

Network share

Internet

Incoming traffic

Outgoing traffic

Detection Type: <Detection type>, for example:

Heuristics

Generic

Concrete

Dynamic signature

Detection Source: <Detection source> for example:

User: user initiated

System: system initiated

Real-time: real-time component initiated

IOAV: IE Downloads and Outlook Express Attachments initiated

NIS: Network inspection system

IEPROTECT: IE - IExtensionValidation; this protects against malicious
webpage controls

Early Launch Antimalware (ELAM). This includes malware detected by the
boot sequence

Remote attestation

Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI). Primarily used to protect scripts
(PowerShell, VBS), though it can be invoked by third parties as well.
UAC

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Process Name: <Process in the PID>

Action: <Action>, for example:

Clean: The resource was cleaned

Quarantine: The resource was quarantined

Remove: The resource was deleted

Allow: The resource was allowed to execute/exist

User defined: User-defined action that is normally one from this list of
actions that the user has specified

No action: No action

Block: The resource was blocked from executing

Action Status: <Description of additional actions>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

NOTE: Whenever Microsoft Defender Antivirus, Microsoft Security
Essentials, Malicious Software Removal Tool, or System Center Endpoint
Protection detects a malware, it will restore the following system
settings and services that the malware might have changed:

Default Internet Explorer or Microsoft Edge setting

User Access Control settings

Chrome settings

Boot Control Data

Regedit and Task Manager registry settings

Windows Update, Background Intelligent Transfer Service, and Remote
Procedure Call service

Windows Operating System files

The above context applies to the following client and server versions:

Operating system

Operating system version

Client Operating System

Windows Vista (Service Pack 1, or Service Pack 2), Windows 7 and later

Server Operating System

Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2012, and
Windows Server 2016

User action:

No action is necessary. Microsoft Defender Antivirus removed or
quarantined a threat.

Event ID: 1118

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_STATE_MALWARE_ACTION_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware platform attempted to perform an action to protect your
system from malware or other potentially unwanted software, but the
action failed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered a non-critical error when
taking action on malware or other potentially unwanted software.For more
information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

Detection Origin: <Detection origin>, for example:

Unknown

Local computer

Network share

Internet

Incoming traffic

Outgoing traffic

Detection Type: <Detection type>, for example:

Heuristics

Generic

Concrete

Dynamic signature

Detection Source: <Detection source> for example:

User: user initiated

System: system initiated

Real-time: real-time component initiated

IOAV: IE Downloads and Outlook Express Attachments initiated

NIS: Network inspection system

IEPROTECT: IE - IExtensionValidation; this protects against malicious
webpage controls

Early Launch Antimalware (ELAM). This includes malware detected by the
boot sequence

Remote attestation

Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI). Primarily used to protect scripts
(PowerShell, VBS), though it can be invoked by third parties as well.
UAC

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Process Name: <Process in the PID>

Action: <Action>, for example:

Clean: The resource was cleaned

Quarantine: The resource was quarantined

Remove: The resource was deleted

Allow: The resource was allowed to execute/exist

User defined: User-defined action that is normally one from this list of
actions that the user has specified

No action: No action

Block: The resource was blocked from executing

Action Status: <Description of additional actions>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

User action:

No action is necessary. Microsoft Defender Antivirus failed to complete
a task related to the malware remediation. This is not a critical
failure.

Event ID: 1119

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_STATE_MALWARE_ACTION_CRITICALLY_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware platform encountered a critical error when trying to
take action on malware or other potentially unwanted software. There are
more details in the event message.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered a critical error when
taking action on malware or other potentially unwanted software.For more
information, see the following:

Name: <Threat name>

ID: <Threat ID>

Severity: <Severity>, for example:

Low

Moderate

High

Severe

Category: <Category description>, for example, any threat or malware
type.

Path: <File path>

Detection Origin: <Detection origin>, for example:

Unknown

Local computer

Network share

Internet

Incoming traffic

Outgoing traffic

Detection Type: <Detection type>, for example:

Heuristics

Generic

Concrete

Dynamic signature

Detection Source: <Detection source> for example:

User: user initiated

System: system initiated

Real-time: real-time component initiated

IOAV: IE Downloads and Outlook Express Attachments initiated

NIS: Network inspection system

IEPROTECT: IE - IExtensionValidation; this protects against malicious
webpage controls

Early Launch Antimalware (ELAM). This includes malware detected by the
boot sequence

Remote attestation

Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI). Primarily used to protect scripts
(PowerShell, VBS), though it can be invoked by third parties as well.
UAC

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Process Name: <Process in the PID>

Action: <Action>, for example:

Clean: The resource was cleaned

Quarantine: The resource was quarantined

Remove: The resource was deleted

Allow: The resource was allowed to execute/exist

User defined: User-defined action that is normally one from this list of
actions that the user has specified

No action: No action

Block: The resource was blocked from executing

Action Status: <Description of additional actions>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

User action:

The Microsoft Defender Antivirus client encountered this error due to
critical issues. The endpoint might not be protected. Review the error
description then follow the relevant User action steps below.

Action

User action

Remove

Update the definitions then verify that the removal was successful.

Clean

Update the definitions then verify that the remediation was successful.

Quarantine

Update the definitions and verify that the user has permission to access
the necessary resources.

Allow

Verify that the user has permission to access the necessary resources.

If this event persists:

Run the scan again.

If it fails in the same way, go to the Microsoft Support site, enter the
error number in the Search box to look for the error code.

Contact Microsoft Technical Support.

Event ID: 1120

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_THREAT_HASH

Message:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has deduced the hashes for a threat
resource.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus client is up and running in a healthy
state.

Current Platform Version: <Current platform version>

Threat Resource Path: <Path>

Hashes: <Hashes>

Note: This event will only be logged if the following policy is set:
ThreatFileHashLogging unsigned.

Event ID: 1127

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_FOLDER_GUARD_SECTOR_BLOCK

Message:

Controlled Folder Access(CFA) blocked an untrusted process from making
changes to the memory.

Description:

Controlled Folder Access has blocked an untrusted process from
potentially modifying disk sectors. For more information about the event
record, see the following:

EventID: <EventID>, for example: 1127

Version: <Version>, for example: 0

Level: <Level>, for example: win:Warning

TimeCreated: <SystemTime>, time when the event was created

EventRecordID: <EventRecordID>, index number of the event in the event
log

Execution ProcessID: <Execution ProcessID>, process that generated the
event

Channel: <Event channel>, for example: Microsoft-Windows-Windows
Defender/Operational

Computer: <Computer name>

Security UserID: <Security UserID>

Product Name: <Product Name>, for example: Microsoft Defender Antivirus

Product Version: <Product Version>

Detection Time: <Detection Time>, time when CFA blocked an untrusted
process

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Path: <Device name>, name of the device or disk that an untrusted
process accessed for modification

Process Name: <Process path>, the process path name that CFA blocked
from accessing the device or disk for modification

Security Intelligence Version: <Security intelligence version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

User action:

The user can add the blocked process to the Allowed Process list for
CFA, using Powershell or Windows Security Center.

Event ID: 1150

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SERVICE_HEALTHY

Message:

If your antimalware platform reports status to a monitoring platform,
this event indicates that the antimalware platform is running and in a
healthy state.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus client is up and running in a healthy
state.

Platform Version: <Current platform version>

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

User action:

No action is necessary. The Microsoft Defender Antivirus client is in a
healthy state. This event is reported on an hourly basis.

Event ID: 1151

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SERVICE_HEALTH_REPORT

Message:

Endpoint Protection client health report (time in UTC)

Description:

Antivirus client health report.

Platform Version: <Current platform version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware Engine version>

Network Realtime Inspection engine version: <Network Realtime Inspection
engine version>

Antivirus signature version: <Antivirus signature version>

Antispyware signature version: <Antispyware signature version>

Network Realtime Inspection signature version: <Network Realtime
Inspection signature version>

RTP state: <Realtime protection state> (Enabled or Disabled)

OA state: <On Access state> (Enabled or Disabled)

IOAV state: <IE Downloads and Outlook Express Attachments state>
(Enabled or Disabled)

BM state: <Behavior Monitoring state> (Enabled or Disabled)

Antivirus signature age: <Antivirus signature age> (in days)

Antispyware signature age: <Antispyware signature age> (in days)

Last quick scan age: <Last quick scan age> (in days)

Last full scan age: <Last full scan age> (in days)

Antivirus signature creation time: ?<Antivirus signature creation time>

Antispyware signature creation time: ?<Antispyware signature creation
time>

Last quick scan start time: ?<Last quick scan start time>

Last quick scan end time: ?<Last quick scan end time>

Last quick scan source: <Last quick scan source> (0 = scan didn’t run, 1
= user initiated, 2 = system initiated)

Last full scan start time: ?<Last full scan start time>

Last full scan end time: ?<Last full scan end time>

Last full scan source: <Last full scan source> (0 = scan didn’t run, 1 =
user initiated, 2 = system initiated)

Product status: For internal troubleshooting

Event ID: 2000

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SIGNATURE_UPDATED

Message:

The antimalware definitions updated successfully.

Description:

Antivirus signature version has been updated.

Current Signature Version: <Current signature version>

Previous Signature Version: <Previous signature version>

Signature Type: <Signature type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Network Inspection System

Update Type: <Update type>, either Full or Delta.

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Current Engine Version: <Current engine version>

Previous Engine Version: <Previous engine version>

User action:

No action is necessary. The Microsoft Defender Antivirus client is in a
healthy state. This event is reported when signatures are successfully
updated.

Event ID: 2001

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SIGNATURE_UPDATE_FAILED

Message:

The security intelligence update failed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to update
signatures.

New security intelligence version: <New version number>

Previous security intelligence version: <Previous version>

Update Source: <Update source>, for example:

Security intelligence update folder

Internal security intelligence update server

Microsoft Update Server

File share

Microsoft Malware Protection Center (MMPC)

Update Stage: <Update stage>, for example:

Search

Download

Install

Source Path: File share name for Universal Naming Convention (UNC),
server name for Windows Server Update Services (WSUS)/Microsoft
Update/ADL.

Signature Type: <Signature type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Network Inspection System

Update Type: <Update type>, either Full or Delta.

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Current Engine Version: <Current engine version>

Previous Engine Version: <Previous engine version>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

User action:

This error occurs when there is a problem updating definitions. To
troubleshoot this event:

Update definitions and force a rescan directly on the endpoint.

Review the entries in the %Windir%.log file for more information about
this error.

Contact Microsoft Technical Support.

Event ID: 2002

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_ENGINE_UPDATED

Message:

The antimalware engine updated successfully.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus engine version has been updated.

Current Engine Version: <Current engine version>

Previous Engine Version: <Previous engine version>

Engine Type: <Engine type>, either antimalware engine or Network
Inspection System engine.

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

User action:

No action is necessary. The Microsoft Defender Antivirus client is in a
healthy state. This event is reported when the antimalware engine is
successfully updated.

Event ID: 2003

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_ENGINE_UPDATE_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware engine update failed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to update
the engine.

New Engine Version:

Previous Engine Version: <Previous engine version>

Engine Type: <Engine type>, either antimalware engine or Network
Inspection System engine.

User: <Domain>&lt;User>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

User action:

The Microsoft Defender Antivirus client update failed. This event occurs
when the client fails to update itself. This event is usually due to an
interruption in network connectivity during an update. To troubleshoot
this event:

Update definitions and force a rescan directly on the endpoint.

Contact Microsoft Technical Support.

Event ID: 2004

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SIGNATURE_REVERSION

Message:

There was a problem loading antimalware definitions. The antimalware
engine will attempt to load the last-known good set of definitions.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to load
signatures and will attempt reverting back to a known-good set of
signatures.

Signatures Attempted:

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Signature Version: <Definition version>

Engine Version: <Antimalware engine version>

User action:

The Microsoft Defender Antivirus client attempted to download and
install the latest definitions file and failed. This error can occur
when the client encounters an error while trying to load the
definitions, or if the file is corrupt. Microsoft Defender Antivirus
will attempt to revert back to a known-good set of definitions. To
troubleshoot this event:

Restart the computer and try again.

Download the latest definitions from the Microsoft Security Intelligence
site. Note: The size of the definitions file downloaded from the site
can exceed 60 MB and should not be used as a long-term solution for
updating definitions.

Contact Microsoft Technical Support.

Event ID: 2005

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_ENGINE_UPDATE_PLATFORMOUTOFDATE

Message:

The antimalware engine failed to load because the antimalware platform
is out of date. The antimalware platform will load the last-known good
antimalware engine and attempt to update.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus could not load antimalware engine because
current platform version is not supported. Microsoft Defender Antivirus
will revert back to the last known-good engine and a platform update
will be attempted.

Current Platform Version: <Current platform version>

Event ID: 2006

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_PLATFORM_UPDATE_FAILED

Message:

The platform update failed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to update
the platform.

Current Platform Version: <Current platform version>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Event ID: 2007

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_PLATFORM_ALMOSTOUTOFDATE

Message:

The platform will soon be out of date. Download the latest platform to
maintain up-to-date protection.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus will soon require a newer platform version
to support future versions of the antimalware engine. Download the
latest Microsoft Defender Antivirus platform to maintain the best level
of protection available.

Current Platform Version: <Current platform version>

Event ID: 2010

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SIGNATURE_FASTPATH_UPDATED

Message:

The antimalware engine used the Dynamic Signature Service to get
additional definitions.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus used Dynamic Signature Service to retrieve
additional signatures to help protect your machine.

Current Signature Version: <Current signature version>

Signature Type: <Signature type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Network Inspection System

Current Engine Version: <Current engine version>

Dynamic Signature Type: <Dynamic signature type>, for example:

Version

Timestamp

No limit

Duration

Persistence Path: <Path>

Dynamic Signature Version: <Version number>

Dynamic Signature Compilation Timestamp: <Timestamp>

Persistence Limit Type: <Persistence limit type>, for example:

VDM version

Timestamp

No limit

Persistence Limit: Persistence limit of the fastpath signature.

Event ID: 2011

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SIGNATURE_FASTPATH_DELETED

Message:

The Dynamic Signature Service deleted the out-of-date dynamic
definitions.

Change to default behavior:

Change to dynamic signature event reporting default behavior

When a dynamic signature is received by MDE, a 2010 event is reported.
However, when the dynamic signature expires or is manually deleted a
2011 event is reported. In some cases, when a new signature is delivered
to MDE sometimes hundreds of dynamic signatures will expire at the same
time; therefore hundreds of 2011 events are reported. The generation of
so many 2011 events can cause a Security information and event
management (SIEM) server to become flooded.

To avoid the above situation - starting with platform version
4.18.2207.7 - by default, MDE will now not report 2011 events:

This new default behavior is controlled by registry entry:
HKLM Defender.

The default value for EnableDynamicSignatureDroppedEventReporting is
false, which means 2011 events are not reported. If it’s set to true,
2011 events are reported.

Because 2010 signature events are timely distributed sporadically - and
will not cause a spike - 2010 signature event behavior is unchanged.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus used Dynamic Signature Service to discard
obsolete signatures.

Current Signature Version: <Current signature version>

Signature Type: <Signature type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Network Inspection System

Current Engine Version: <Current engine version>

Dynamic Signature Type: <Dynamic signature type>, for example:

Version

Timestamp

No limit

Duration

Persistence Path: <Path>

Dynamic Signature Version: <Version number>

Dynamic Signature Compilation Timestamp: <Timestamp>

Removal Reason:

Persistence Limit Type: <Persistence limit type>, for example:

VDM version

Timestamp

No limit

Persistence Limit: Persistence limit of the fastpath signature.

User action:

No action is necessary. The Microsoft Defender Antivirus client is in a
healthy state. This event is reported when the Dynamic Signature Service
successfully deletes out-of-date dynamic definitions.

Event ID: 2012

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SIGNATURE_FASTPATH_UPDATE_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware engine encountered an error when trying to use the
Dynamic Signature Service.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to use
Dynamic Signature Service.

Current Signature Version: <Current signature version>

Signature Type: <Signature type>, for example:

Antivirus

Antispyware

Antimalware

Network Inspection System

Current Engine Version: <Current engine version>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Dynamic Signature Type: <Dynamic signature type>, for example:

Version

Timestamp

No limit

Duration

Persistence Path: <Path>

Dynamic Signature Version: <Version number>

Dynamic Signature Compilation Timestamp: <Timestamp>

Persistence Limit Type: <Persistence limit type>, for example:

VDM version

Timestamp

No limit

Persistence Limit: Persistence limit of the fastpath signature.

User action:

Check your Internet connectivity settings.

Event ID: 2013

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_SIGNATURE_FASTPATH_DELETED_ALL

Message:

The Dynamic Signature Service deleted all dynamic definitions.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus discarded all Dynamic Signature Service
signatures.

Current Signature Version: <Current signature version>

Event ID: 2020

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_CLOUD_CLEAN_RESTORE_FILE_DOWNLOADED

Message:

The antimalware engine downloaded a clean file.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus downloaded a clean file.

Filename: <File name> Name of the file.

Current Signature Version: <Current signature version>

Current Engine Version: <Current engine version>

Event ID: 2021

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_CLOUD_CLEAN_RESTORE_FILE_DOWNLOAD_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware engine failed to download a clean file.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to download
a clean file.

Filename: <File name> Name of the file.

Current Signature Version: <Current signature version>

Current Engine Version: <Current engine version>

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

User action:

Check your Internet connectivity settings. The Microsoft Defender
Antivirus client encountered an error when using the Dynamic Signature
Service to download the latest definitions to a specific threat. This
error is likely caused by a network connectivity issue.

Event ID: 2030

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_OFFLINE_SCAN_INSTALLED

Message:

The antimalware engine was downloaded and is configured to run offline
on the next system restart.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus downloaded and configured offline antivirus
to run on the next reboot.

Event ID: 2031

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_OFFLINE_SCAN_INSTALL_FAILED

Message:

The antimalware engine was unable to download and configure an offline
scan.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has encountered an error trying to download
and configure offline antivirus.

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Event ID: 2040

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_OS_EXPIRING

Message:

Antimalware support for this operating system version will soon end.

Description:

The support for your operating system will expire shortly. Running
Microsoft Defender Antivirus on an out of support operating system is
not an adequate solution to protect against threats.

Event ID: 2041

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_OS_EOL

Message:

Antimalware support for this operating system has ended. You must
upgrade the operating system for continued support.

Description:

The support for your operating system has expired. Running Microsoft
Defender Antivirus on an out of support operating system is not an
adequate solution to protect against threats.

Event ID: 2042

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_PROTECTION_EOL

Message:

The antimalware engine no longer supports this operating system, and is
no longer protecting your system from malware.

Description:

The support for your operating system has expired. Microsoft Defender
Antivirus is no longer supported on your operating system, has stopped
functioning, and is not protecting against malware threats.

Event ID: 3002

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_RTP_FEATURE_FAILURE

Message:

Real-time protection encountered an error and failed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus Real-Time Protection feature has
encountered an error and failed.

Feature: <Feature>, for example:

On Access

Internet Explorer downloads and Microsoft Outlook Express attachments

Behavior monitoring

Network Inspection System

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

Reason: The reason Microsoft Defender Antivirus real-time protection has
restarted a feature.

User action:

You should restart the system then run a full scan because it’s possible
the system was not protected for some time. The Microsoft Defender
Antivirus client’s real-time protection feature encountered an error
because one of the services failed to start. If it is followed by a 3007
event ID, the failure was temporary and the antimalware client recovered
from the failure.

Event ID: 3007

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_RTP_FEATURE_RECOVERED

Message:

Real-time protection recovered from a failure. We recommend running a
full system scan when you see this error.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus Real-time Protection has restarted a
feature. It is recommended that you run a full system scan to detect any
items that may have been missed while this agent was down.

Feature: <Feature>, for example:

On Access

IE downloads and Outlook Express attachments

Behavior monitoring

Network Inspection System

Reason: The reason Microsoft Defender Antivirus real-time protection has
restarted a feature.

User action:

The real-time protection feature has restarted. If this event happens
again, contact Microsoft Technical Support.

Event ID: 5000

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_RTP_ENABLED

Message:

Real-time protection is enabled.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus real-time protection scanning for malware
and other potentially unwanted software was enabled.

Event ID: 5001

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_RTP_DISABLED

Message:

Real-time protection is disabled.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus real-time protection scanning for malware
and other potentially unwanted software was disabled.

Event ID: 5004

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_RTP_FEATURE_CONFIGURED

Message:

The real-time protection configuration changed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus real-time protection feature configuration
has changed.

Feature: <Feature>, for example:

On Access

IE downloads and Outlook Express attachments

Behavior monitoring

Network Inspection System

Configuration:

Event ID: 5007

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_CONFIG_CHANGED

Message:

The antimalware platform configuration changed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus configuration has changed. If this is an
unexpected event, you should review the settings as this may be the
result of malware.

Old value: <Old value number> Old antivirus configuration value.

New value: <New value number> New antivirus configuration value.

Event ID: 5008

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_ENGINE_FAILURE

Message:

The antimalware engine encountered an error and failed.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus engine has been terminated due to an
unexpected error.

Failure Type: <Failure type>, for example: Crash or Hang

Exception Code: <Error code>

Resource: <Resource>

User action:

To troubleshoot this event:

Try to restart the service.

For antimalware, antivirus and spyware, at an elevated command prompt,
type net stop msmpsvc, and then type net start msmpsvc to restart the
antimalware engine.

For the Network Inspection System, at an elevated command prompt, type
net start nissrv, and then type net start nissrv to restart the Network
Inspection System engine by using the NiSSRV.exe file.

If it fails in the same way, look up the error code by accessing the
Microsoft Support Site and entering the error number in the Search box,
and contact Microsoft Technical Support.

User action:

The Microsoft Defender Antivirus client engine stopped due to an
unexpected error. To troubleshoot this event:

Run the scan again.

If it fails in the same way, go to the Microsoft Support site, enter the
error number in the Search box to look for the error code.

Contact Microsoft Technical Support.

Event ID: 5009

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_ANTISPYWARE_ENABLED

Message:

Scanning for malware and other potentially unwanted software is enabled.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus scanning for malware and other potentially
unwanted software has been enabled.

Event ID: 5010

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_ANTISPYWARE_DISABLED

Message:

Scanning for malware and other potentially unwanted software is
disabled.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus scanning for malware and other potentially
unwanted software is disabled.

Event ID: 5011

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_ANTIVIRUS_ENABLED

Message:

Scanning for viruses is enabled.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus scanning for viruses has been enabled.

Event ID: 5012

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_ANTIVIRUS_DISABLED

Message:

Scanning for viruses is disabled.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus scanning for viruses is disabled.

Event ID: 5013

Symbolic name:

Message:

Tamper protection blocked a change to Microsoft Defender Antivirus.

Description:

If Tamper protection is enabled then, any attempt to change any of
Defender’s settings is blocked. Event ID 5013 is generated and states
which setting change was blocked.

Event ID: 5100

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_EXPIRATION_WARNING_STATE

Message:

The antimalware platform will expire soon.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus has entered a grace period and will soon
expire. After expiration, this program will disable protection against
viruses, spyware, and other potentially unwanted software.

Expiration Reason: The reason Microsoft Defender Antivirus will expire.

Expiration Date: The date Microsoft Defender Antivirus will expire.

Event ID: 5101

Symbolic name:

MALWAREPROTECTION_DISABLED_EXPIRED_STATE

Message:

The antimalware platform is expired.

Description:

Microsoft Defender Antivirus grace period has expired. Protection
against viruses, spyware, and other potentially unwanted software is
disabled.

Expiration Reason:

Expiration Date:

Error Code: <Error code> Result code associated with threat status.
Standard HRESULT values.

Error Description: <Error description> Description of the error.

## Microsoft Defender Antivirus client error codes If Microsoft Defender
Antivirus experiences any issues it will usually give you an error code
to help you troubleshoot the issue. Most often an error means there was
a problem installing an update. This section provides the following
information about Microsoft Defender Antivirus client errors. - The
error code - The possible reason for the error - Advice on what to do
now

Use the information in these tables to help troubleshoot Microsoft
Defender Antivirus error codes.

Error code: 0x80508007

Message

ERR_MP_NO_MEMORY

Possible reason

This error indicates that you might have run out of memory.

Resolution

Check the available memory on your device.

Close any unused applications that are running to free up memory on your
device.

Restart the device and run the scan again.

Error code: 0x8050800C

Message

ERR_MP_BAD_INPUT_DATA

Possible reason

This error indicates that there might be a problem with your security
product.

Resolution

Update the definitions. Either:

Get your security intelligence updates in the Windows Security app. Or,

Download the latest definitions from the Microsoft Security Intelligence
site. Note: The size of the definitions file downloaded from the site
can exceed 60 MB and should not be used as a long-term solution for
updating definitions.

Run a full scan.

Restart the device and try again.

Error code: 0x80508020

Message

ERR_MP_BAD_CONFIGURATION

Possible reason

This error indicates that there might be an engine configuration error;
commonly, this is related to input data that does not allow the engine
to function properly.

Error code: 0x805080211

Message

ERR_MP_QUARANTINE_FAILED

Possible reason

This error indicates that Microsoft Defender Antivirus failed to
quarantine a threat.

Error code: 0x80508022

Message

ERR_MP_REBOOT_REQUIRED

Possible reason

This error indicates that a reboot is required to complete threat
removal.

0x80508023

Message

ERR_MP_THREAT_NOT_FOUND

Possible reason

This error indicates that the threat might no longer be present on the
media, or malware might be stopping you from scanning your device.

Resolution

Run the Microsoft Safety Scanner then update your security software and
try again.

Error code: 0x80508024

Message

ERR_MP_FULL_SCAN_REQUIRED

Possible reason

This error indicates that a full system scan might be required.

Resolution

Run a full system scan.

Error code: 0x80508025

Message

ERR_MP_MANUAL_STEPS_REQUIRED

Possible reason

This error indicates that manual steps are required to complete threat
removal.

Resolution

Follow the manual remediation steps outlined in the Microsoft Malware
Protection Encyclopedia. You can find a threat-specific link in the
event history.

Error code: 0x80508026

Message

ERR_MP_REMOVE_NOT_SUPPORTED

Possible reason

This error indicates that removal inside the container type might not be
not supported.

Resolution

Microsoft Defender Antivirus is not able to remediate threats detected
inside the archive. Consider manually removing the detected resources.

Error code: 0x80508027

Message

ERR_MP_REMOVE_LOW_MEDIUM_DISABLED

Possible reason

This error indicates that removal of low and medium threats might be
disabled.

Resolution

Check the detected threats and resolve them as required.

Error code: 0x80508029

Message

ERROR_MP_RESCAN_REQUIRED

Possible reason

This error indicates a rescan of the threat is required.

Resolution

Run a full system scan.

Error code: 0x80508030

Message

ERROR_MP_CALLISTO_REQUIRED

Possible reason

This error indicates that an offline scan is required.

Resolution

Run offline Microsoft Defender Antivirus. You can read about how to do
this in the offline Microsoft Defender Antivirus article.

Error code: 0x80508031

Message

ERROR_MP_PLATFORM_OUTDATED

Possible reason

This error indicates that Microsoft Defender Antivirus does not support
the current version of the platform and requires a new version of the
platform.

Resolution

You can only use Microsoft Defender Antivirus in Windows 10 and Windows
11. For Windows 8, Windows 7 and Windows Vista, you can use System
Center Endpoint Protection.

The following error codes are used during internal testing of Microsoft
Defender Antivirus.

If you see these errors, you can try to
link:manage-updates-baselines-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[update
definitions] and force a rescan directly on the endpoint.

Internal error codes

Error code

Message displayed

Possible reason for error and resolution

0x80501004

ERROR_MP_NO_INTERNET_CONN

Check your Internet connection, then run the scan again.

0x80501000

ERROR_MP_UI_CONSOLIDATION_BASE

This is an internal error. The cause is not clearly defined.

0x80501001

ERROR_MP_ACTIONS_FAILED

0x80501002

ERROR_MP_NOENGINE

0x80501003

ERROR_MP_ACTIVE_THREATS

0x805011011

MP_ERROR_CODE_LUA_CANCELLED

0x80501101

ERROR_LUA_CANCELLATION

0x80501102

MP_ERROR_CODE_ALREADY_SHUTDOWN

0x80501103

MP_ERROR_CODE_RDEVICE_S_ASYNC_CALL_PENDING

0x80501104

MP_ERROR_CODE_CANCELLED

0x80501105

MP_ERROR_CODE_NO_TARGETOS

0x80501106

MP_ERROR_CODE_BAD_REGEXP

0x80501107

MP_ERROR_TEST_INDUCED_ERROR

0x80501108

MP_ERROR_SIG_BACKUP_DISABLED

0x80508001

ERR_MP_BAD_INIT_MODULES

0x80508002

ERR_MP_BAD_DATABASE

0x80508004

ERR_MP_BAD_UFS

0x8050800C

ERR_MP_BAD_INPUT_DATA

0x8050800D

ERR_MP_BAD_GLOBAL_STORAGE

0x8050800E

ERR_MP_OBSOLETE

0x8050800F

ERR_MP_NOT_SUPPORTED

0x8050800F 0x80508010

ERR_MP_NO_MORE_ITEMS

0x80508011

ERR_MP_DUPLICATE_SCANID

0x80508012

ERR_MP_BAD_SCANID

0x80508013

ERR_MP_BAD_USERDB_VERSION

0x80508014

ERR_MP_RESTORE_FAILED

0x80508016

ERR_MP_BAD_ACTION

0x80508019

ERR_MP_NOT_FOUND

0x80509001

ERR_RELO_BAD_EHANDLE

0x80509003

ERR_RELO_KERNEL_NOT_LOADED

0x8050A001

ERR_MP_BADDB_OPEN

0x8050A002

ERR_MP_BADDB_HEADER

0x8050A003

ERR_MP_BADDB_OLDENGINE

0x8050A004

ERR_MP_BADDB_CONTENT

0x8050A005

ERR_MP_BADDB_NOTSIGNED

0x8050801

ERR_MP_REMOVE_FAILED

This is an internal error. It might be triggered when malware removal is
not successful.

0x80508018

ERR_MP_SCAN_ABORTED

This is an internal error. It might have triggered when a scan fails to
complete.

____
{empty}[!TIP] If you’re looking for Antivirus related information for
other platforms, see: - link:mac-preferences.md[Set preferences for
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on macOS] -
link:microsoft-defender-endpoint-mac.md[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
on Mac] -
link:/mem/intune/protect/antivirus-microsoft-defender-settings-macos[macOS
Antivirus policy settings for Microsoft Defender Antivirus for Intune] -
link:linux-preferences.md[Set preferences for Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint on Linux] - link:microsoft-defender-endpoint-linux.md[Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint on Linux] - link:android-configure.md[Configure
Defender for Endpoint on Android features] -
link:ios-configure-features.md[Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
on iOS features]
____

=== Related topics

* link:report-monitor-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[Report on
Microsoft Defender Antivirus protection]
* link:microsoft-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md[Microsoft Defender
Antivirus in Windows 10]
