= 
denisebmsft
:keywords: Microsoft Defender Antivirus, cloud protection, security
features, sample submission

== Why cloud protection should be enabled for Microsoft Defender Antivirus

*Applies to:*

* Microsoft Defender Antivirus
* https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender
for Endpoint Plan 1]
* https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2154037[Microsoft Defender
for Endpoint Plan 2]

*Platforms* - Windows

Microsoft Defender Antivirus cloud protection helps protect against
malware on your endpoints and across your network. We recommend keeping
cloud protection turned on, because certain security features and
capabilities in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint only work when cloud
protection is enabled.

link:enable-cloud-protection-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[image:images/mde-cloud-protection.png#lightbox[alt-text=“Diagram
showing things that depend on cloud protection]]

The following table summarizes the features and capabilities that depend
on cloud protection:

[width="100%",cols="36%,34%,30%",options="header",]
|===
|Feature/Capability |Subscription requirement |Description
|Checking against metadata in the cloud |Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Plan 1 or Plan 2 (Standalone or included in a plan like Microsoft 365 E3
or E5) |The Microsoft Defender Antivirus cloud service uses machine
learning models as an extra layer of defense. These machine learning
models include metadata, so when a suspicious or malicious file is
detected, its metadata is checked. To learn more, see
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2019/06/24/inside-out-get-to-know-the-advanced-technologies-at-the-core-of-microsoft-defender-atp-next-generation-protection/[Blog:
Get to know the advanced technologies at the core of Microsoft Defender
for Endpoint next-generation protection]

|Cloud protection and sample submission |Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Plan 1 or Plan 2 (Standalone or included in a plan like Microsoft 365 E3
or E5) |Files and executables can be sent to the Microsoft Defender
Antivirus cloud service for detonation and analysis. To learn more, see
link:cloud-protection-microsoft-antivirus-sample-submission.md[Cloud
protection and sample submission in Microsoft Defender
Antivirus].*NOTE*: Automatic sample submission relies on cloud
protection, although it can also be configured as a standalone setting.

|Tamper protection |Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2 (Standalone
or included in a plan like Microsoft 365 E5) |Tamper protection helps
protect against unwanted changes to your organization’s security
settings. To enforce tamper protection in the Microsoft 365 Defender
portal, cloud protection must be enabled. To learn more, see
link:prevent-changes-to-security-settings-with-tamper-protection.md[Protect
security settings with tamper protection].

|Block at first sight |Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 1 or Plan 2
(Standalone or included in a plan like Microsoft 365 E3 or E5) |Block at
first sight detects new malware and blocks it within seconds. When a
suspicious or malicious file is detected, block at first sight
capabilities queries the cloud protection backend and applies
heuristics, machine learning, and automated analysis of the file to
determine whether it is a threat.To learn more, see
link:configure-block-at-first-sight-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md#what-is-block-at-first-sight[What
is ``block at first sight''?]

|Emergency signature updates |Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2
(Standalone or included in a plan like Microsoft 365 E5) |When malicious
content is detected, emergency signature updates and fixes are deployed.
Rather than wait for the next regular update, you can receive these
fixes and updates within minutes.

|Endpoint detection and response (EDR) in block mode |Microsoft Defender
for Endpoint Plan 2 (Standalone or included in a plan like Microsoft 365
E5) |EDR in block mode provides extra protection when Microsoft Defender
Antivirus is not the primary antivirus product on a device. EDR in block
mode remediates artifacts found during EDR-generated scans that the
non-Microsoft, primary antivirus solution might have missed. When
enabled for devices with Microsoft Defender Antivirus as the primary
antivirus solution, EDR in block mode provides the added benefit of
automatically remediating artifacts identified during EDR-generated
scans. To learn more, see link:edr-in-block-mode.md[EDR in block mode].

|Attack surface reduction rules |Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 1
or Plan 2 (Standalone or included in a plan like Microsoft 365 E3 or E5)
|Attack surface reduction is all about reducing the places and ways your
organization’s endpoints are vulnerable to a cyber attack. Attack
surface reduction rules are intelligent rules that you can configure to
help stop malware. Certain rules require cloud protection to be turned
on in order to function fully. These rules include: - Block executable
files from running unless they meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list
criteria - Use advanced protection against ransomware - Block untrusted
programs from running from removable drives To learn more, see
link:attack-surface-reduction.md[Use attack surface reduction rules to
prevent malware infection].

|Indicators of compromise (IoCs) |Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2
(Standalone or included in a plan like Microsoft 365 E5) |IoCs in
Defender for Endpoint can be configured to define the detection,
prevention, and exclusion of entities. For example, ``allow'' indicators
can be used to define exceptions to Microsoft Defender Antivirus scans
and remediation actions in Defender for Endpoint. As another example,
``alert and block'' indicators can be used to prevent files or processes
from executing, and to track these activities with alerts that are
viewable in the Microsoft 365 Defender portal. To learn more, see
link:manage-indicators.md[Create indicators].
|===

____
[!TIP] To learn more about Defender for Endpoint plans, see
link:defender-endpoint-plan-1-2.md[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan
1 and Plan 2].
____

=== Next steps

Now that you have an overview of cloud protection and its role in
Microsoft Defender Antivirus, here are some next steps:

[arabic]
. *link:enable-cloud-protection-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[Enable
cloud protection]*. You can enable cloud protection with Microsoft
Endpoint Manager (which now includes Microsoft Endpoint Configuration
Manager and Microsoft Intune), Group Policy, or PowerShell cmdlets.
. *link:specify-cloud-protection-level-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[Specify
the cloud protection level]*. You can specify the level of protection
offered by the cloud by using Microsoft Endpoint Manager or Group
Policy. The protection level affects the amount of information shared
with the cloud and how aggressively new files are blocked.
. *link:configure-network-connections-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[Configure
and validate network connections for Microsoft Defender Antivirus]*.
There are certain Microsoft URLs that your network and endpoints must be
able to connect to for cloud protection to work effectively. This
article lists the URLs that should be allowed via firewall or network
filtering rules, and instructions for confirming your network is
properly enrolled in cloud protection.
. *link:configure-block-at-first-sight-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[Configure
the ``block at first sight'' feature]*. The ``block at first sight''
feature can block new malware within seconds, without having to wait
hours for traditional Security intelligence. You can enable and
configure it by using Microsoft Endpoint Manager or Group Policy.
. *link:configure-cloud-block-timeout-period-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md[Configure
the cloud block timeout period]*. Microsoft Defender Antivirus can block
suspicious files from running while it queries our cloud protection
service. You can configure the amount of time the file will be prevented
from running by using Microsoft Endpoint Manager or Group Policy.

____
{empty}[!TIP] If you’re looking for Antivirus related information for
other platforms, see: - link:mac-preferences.md[Set preferences for
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint on macOS] -
link:microsoft-defender-endpoint-mac.md[Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
on Mac] -
link:/mem/intune/protect/antivirus-microsoft-defender-settings-macos[macOS
Antivirus policy settings for Microsoft Defender Antivirus for Intune] -
link:linux-preferences.md[Set preferences for Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint on Linux] - link:microsoft-defender-endpoint-linux.md[Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint on Linux] - link:android-configure.md[Configure
Defender for Endpoint on Android features] -
link:ios-configure-features.md[Configure Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
on iOS features]
____
