= 
lanachin

== Virtual Appointments with Microsoft Teams and the Bookings app

image:media/info.png[Information icon] *Some features described in this
article require
link:/microsoftteams/teams-add-on-licensing/licensing-enhance-teams[Teams
Premium] (Preview)*.

=== Overview

The
https://support.microsoft.com/office/what-is-bookings-42d4e852-8e99-4d8f-9b70-d7fc93973cb5[Bookings
app] in Microsoft Teams gives organizations a simple way to schedule and
manage virtual appointments for staff and attendees. Use it to schedule
and manage appointments such as healthcare visits, financial
consultations, interviews, customer support, virtual fittings and
consultations, education office hours, and more. You can also publish an
online booking page for your clients, customers, and patients to book
appointments with your staff.

The Bookings app makes it easy to manage complex scheduling demands of
any organization. Schedulers can manage multiple department and staff
calendars, as well as communications with internal and external
attendees, from a single experience.

The virtual appointments are held through Microsoft Teams meetings,
which offer robust video conferencing capabilities. For example, a
doctor can share their screen and review test results with a patient.
Or, a banking advisor can request electronic signatures on documents,
allowing them to close transactions remotely.

____
{empty}[!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4TQop]
____

With Bookings, you get an experience that’s tailored to your industry.
Here’s a few examples of how you can use it in your organization:

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Industry |Examples
|Financial services |Virtual appointments for remote sales and
serviceSchedule and manage appointments for bank relationship managers,
financial advisors, and claims adjusters, just to name a few, to serve
your customers with increased efficiency and convenience.

|Retail |Virtual fittings and consultations Schedule and manage
appointments for your sales associates, product experts, and design
consultants to conduct virtual fittings and consultations with
customers.

|Healthcare |Virtual appointments for patient care Schedule and manage
appointments for your care team members to meet with patients or other
healthcare providers to discuss medical care.
|===

With any Microsoft 365 license, you can use basic Virtual Appointments
capabilities that make it easy to schedule and join business-to-customer
meetings. For example, attendees can wait in a pre-appointment waiting
room and join through a browser without having to download Teams. With
link:/microsoftteams/teams-add-on-licensing/licensing-enhance-teams[Teams
Premium] (Preview), your organization gets advanced Virtual Appointments
capabilities on top of Bookings to manage and personalize the
experience. These include a queue view of scheduled and on-demand
appointments, SMS notifications, custom waiting rooms, and analytics.

This article gives you an overview of how to schedule, manage, and
conduct virtual appointments using the Bookings app in Teams.

=== Before you get started

If you’re an admin, see
link:/microsoftteams/bookings-app-admin?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
the Bookings app in Teams] to learn about the prerequisites for using
the Bookings app in Teams, how to control access to Bookings in your
organization, and recommended policy and admin settings.

=== Set up a new booking calendar

You must be a Bookings admin to set up and manage booking calendar
settings.

==== Create the booking calendar

In Teams, go to *Bookings* > *Get started*, and then select *New booking
calendar*. Complete the form and be sure to choose the relevant business
type for your organization.

:::image type=``content''
source=``media/bookings-virtual-appointments-new-booking-calendar.png''
alt-text=``Screenshot of a new booking calendar screen showing business
types.''
lightbox=``media/bookings-virtual-appointments-new-booking-calendar.png'':::

If you’re a larger organization, consider creating separate booking
calendars for specific departments within your organization. To learn
more, see
https://support.microsoft.com//office/create-a-bookings-calendar-921cfd26-a24d-4aca-9004-561594112148[Create
a Bookings calendar].

____
[!NOTE] If this isn’t your first time in the Bookings app or if you want
to work in an existing booking calendar, in Bookings, select the
dropdown arrow next to your organization name, and then choose *Existing
booking calendar*. From here, you can search for the one you want.
____

==== Add staff

In the booking calendar, go to *More options* (…) > *Settings*, and then
select *Staff*. Add staff members and assign a role to each person you
add. You can add up to 100 staff members to a booking calendar.

The Bookings app integrates with Outlook. After you add staff, you’ll be
able to view their calendar availability and schedule bookings for them.
To learn more, see
https://support.microsoft.com/office/add-staff-and-view-a-bookings-calendar-6c579f61-8adb-4514-9458-021de2023fa0[Add
staff and view a Bookings calendar].

==== Create appointment types

Create specific appointment types to represent the services offered by
your organization and to tailor the booking experience. The appointment
type can then be used to book appointments.

In the booking calendar, go to *More options* (*…*) > *Settings*, select
*Appointment types*, and then select *Add appointment type*. Specify
whether the service is for link:#scheduled-appointment-type[Scheduled]
or link:#on-demand-appointment-type[On-demand] appointments.

To learn more, see
https://support.microsoft.com/office/create-an-appointment-type-810eac77-6a65-4dc8-964d-c00eadf43887[Create
an appointment type].

===== Scheduled appointment type

Enter a name for the service. For example, Account opening, Prescription
renewal, Loan consultation, Tax preparation.

Specify any other information and settings you want. Schedulers can then
use the appointment type to schedule an appointment. The information
that you add is included in the email confirmation that’s sent to
attendees every time this type of appointment is booked.

You can configure options such as whether attendees can
link:browser-join.md[join from a a desktop or mobile browser] without
having to download Teams, add an email reminder,
link:#set-up-sms-text-notifications[set up SMS text notifications], and
link:#link-forms[link forms].

====== Set up SMS text notifications

image:media/info.png[Information icon] *This feature is moving to
link:/microsoftteams/teams-add-on-licensing/licensing-enhance-teams[Teams
Premium] (Preview). Users can continue using this feature during the
preview period. After the preview, users need a Teams Premium license.*

____
[!NOTE] We’ll be providing unlimited SMS notifications through March 1,
2023 (previously January 31, 2023) for customers with Bookings licenses.
As we get closer to the end of the promotion period, we’ll provide
additional details on licensing requirements. Contact your account team
or support to receive pricing details after the promotion period.
____

Attendees need a valid United States, Canada, or United Kingdom phone
number before they can receive SMS notifications.

To send SMS notifications to attendees by default, turn on *Send them
text messages*. Attendees will receive confirmation and reminder text
messages that include the Teams meeting link and scheduled appointment
details. They can opt out of receiving the messages by replying STOP, or
resume receiving them by replying START.

Keep in mind that schedulers can later choose to turn off the setting on
an as-needed basis when they use the appointment type to schedule an
appointment.

To learn more, see
https://support.microsoft.com/office/send-text-message-notifications-f4e6aa74-2ee9-4b12-9105-0e9271d4b244[Send
text message notifications].

====== Link forms

You can link up to four forms for attendees to fill out each time this
scheduled appointment type is booked. For example, you may require
attendees to complete a registration form before they join an
appointment. To link a form, choose *Link a form*. Enter the URL of the
form, and then choose *Link*. (If this is the first time that you’re
linking a form, you’ll be prompted to create a Microsoft 365 group to
store forms. Choose *Create group* to create the group. You only have to
do this one time for the booking calendar.)

When working with forms, keep in mind that:

* To make changes to a form that’s already linked to an appointment
type, select the form in the appointment type or from within the
Microsoft 365 group at https://forms.office.com.
* Uploading files to forms that contain a
https://support.microsoft.com/office/add-questions-that-allow-for-file-uploads-6a75a658-c02b-450e-b119-d068f3cba4cf[file
upload question] is supported when all attendees are from the same
organization.

When a scheduler uses the appointment type to schedule an appointment,
they can then choose to include the form, remove it, or add any other
forms that you linked to the appointment type. Attendees must fill out
the form before they join the appointment.

____
[!NOTE] If you’re a healthcare provider, any information provided by you
or patients in Teams (including the Forms app, Bookings app, meeting
recordings if enabled by you, or any other Teams virtual appointments
services) that’s necessary for medical records continuity or retention
purposes should be downloaded, copied, and/or notated directly in such
records by you. This service does not maintain legal medical records or
a designated record set.
____

===== On-demand appointment type

image:media/info.png[Information icon] *To access this feature during
the preview period, users need a Teams Premium trial license.*

Enter a name for the service. For example, Drop-in appointment, Account
opening, Prescription renewal, Loan consultation, Tax preparation.

Your customers, clients, and patients can then choose the appointment
type on your booking page to request an on-demand appointment with your
staff.

=== Publish a booking page

image:media/info.png[Information icon] *To access the on-demand
scheduling feature during the preview period, users need a Teams Premium
trial license.*

Booking admins can publish an online booking page where people can book
scheduled and on-demand appointments with your staff.

[arabic]
. In the booking calendar, go to *More options* (*…*) > *Settings*, and
then select *Booking page*.
. Turn on *Publish booking page*. :::image type=``content''
source=``media/bookings-virtual-appointments-booking-page-settings.png''
alt-text=``Screenshot of booking page settings.''
lightbox=``media/bookings-virtual-appointments-booking-page-settings.png'':::
. To enable people to request on-demand appointments on your booking
page, turn on *Show option for On-demand scheduling*.

You can customize and manage your booking page settings in the Bookings
web app. To learn more, see
link:/microsoft-365/bookings/customize-booking-page[Customize and
publish your booking page].

=== Book an appointment

==== Scheduled appointments

Schedulers use scheduled appointment types to book appointments for your
staff and attendees. In the booking calendar, select *New booking*.
Choose a scheduled appointment type, and then fill out the relevant
information.

This includes attendee contact information, the staff member who will be
providing the service, internal notes that only staff can see, whether
the attendee can join from a browser, email reminders, and whether to
send SMS notifications. If a form is linked to the appointment type, you
can choose to include it, remove it, or add any other linked forms.

Each scheduled appointment includes a Teams meeting link that’s sent to
attendees in email where they can easily join from a web browser (if
enabled for the appointment) or in Teams on any device. The email
confirmation also includes an attachment so they can add the appointment
to their calendar. Staff also receive an email confirmation and meeting
invite.

If a form was included in the appointment, Bookings admins and
schedulers can see whether the form was completed by the attendee before
the appointment, and can view the attendee’s response.

To learn more, see
https://support.microsoft.com/office/schedule-a-booking-in-the-teams-bookings-app-e275049d-0d0f-4161-8526-461a9f29439f[Schedule
a booking in the Teams Bookings app].

==== On-demand appointments

Your customers, clients, and patients can go to your online booking page
to request an appointment with your staff.

=== Conduct an appointment

For scheduled appointments, do one of the following:

* In your Teams or Outlook calendar, go to the booking, and then select
*Join* or the Teams meeting link. +
* In Bookings, go to the *Queue* tab, and then under *Scheduled*, select
*Join* next to the appointment.

For on-demand appointments, in Bookings, go to the *Queue* tab, and then
under *On-demand*, select *Join* next to the appointment.

To learn more, see
https://support.microsoft.com/office/conduct-a-bookings-appointment-a86a4007-e26c-4909-9893-f7036e2747cd[Conduct
a Bookings appointment].

=== Monitor appointments and get real-time status updates in the queue view

image:media/info.png[Information icon] *The scheduled queue view is
moving to
link:/microsoftteams/teams-add-on-licensing/licensing-enhance-teams[Teams
Premium] (Preview). Users can continue using this feature during the
preview period. After the preview, users need a Teams Premium license.
To access the on-demand queue during the preview period, users need a
Teams Premium trial license.*

The queue view provides your staff with a dashboard to monitor all
scheduled and on-demand virtual appointments for the day, with updates
in real time. To see the queue, go to the *Queue* tab.

:::image type=``content''
source=``media/bookings-virtual-appointments-queue.png''
alt-text=``Screenshot of the queue view in the Bookings app in Teams.''
lightbox=``media/bookings-virtual-appointments-queue.png'':::

From the queue, schedulers can add a new booking, view relevant
appointment details, and see appointment statuses throughout the day.
They can also send email reminders to assigned staff and attendees and
send SMS notifications to attendees for scheduled appointments.

When an attendee joins the waiting room, the status changes, and their
wait time is displayed and tracked. The view automatically refreshes
with color-coded updates so that changes can easily be identified.

Staff can even join and manage appointments directly from the queue.

To learn more, see
https://support.microsoft.com/office/queue-view-in-bookings-3eea2840-a1e0-4bcd-8e09-d3cf51c184d6[Queue
view in Bookings]

____
[!NOTE] Currently, the Bookings app supports adding up to 100 staff per
booking calendar. If you used Graph APIs to set up and add staff to a
booking calendar, this limit may not be enforced. In this scenario, the
*Queue* tab won’t be able to render content for calendars that have more
than 100 staff. For an optimal experience, we recommend that you add no
more than 100 staff to a booking calendar. We’re working to resolve this
limitation in future releases.
____

=== Get insight into Virtual Appointments usage

image:media/info.png[Information icon] *The Virtual Appointments usage
report is moving to
link:/microsoftteams/teams-add-on-licensing/licensing-enhance-teams[Teams
Premium] (Preview). The report will continue to be available during the
preview period. After the preview, a Teams Premium license is required.
To access the Advanced Virtual Appointments activity report during the
preview period, a Teams Premium trial license is required.*

Admins can use the following reports in the Teams admin center to gain
insight into usage activity and trends in your organization. Use this
information to help optimize Virtual Appointments to deliver better
business outcomes.

* The link:virtual-appointments-usage-report.md[Virtual Appointments
usage report] gives you an overview of Teams Virtual Appointments
activity in your organization. The report shows detailed analytics for
virtual appointments including Bookings appointments. You can view key
metrics such as total number of appointments, appointment duration,
lobby wait time, and no shows.
* The link:advanced-virtual-appointments-activity-report.md[Advanced
Virtual Appointments activity report] provides usage information for
advanced Virtual Appointments capabilities that are available with Teams
Premium (Preview).

=== Related articles

* link:browser-join.md[Manage the join experience for Teams Virtual
Appointments on browsers]
* https://support.microsoft.com/office/what-is-bookings-42d4e852-8e99-4d8f-9b70-d7fc93973cb5[Bookings
app in Teams help documentation]
* link:/microsoftteams/teams-add-on-licensing/licensing-enhance-teams[Teams
Premium licensing]
