= 
daisyfeller

== Corporate communications with frontline workers

Keep your frontline team connected with your broader organization by
using Viva Engage and Viva Connections.

=== Connect information from across the organization with Viva Connections

Engage and inform workers with Viva Connections. Viva Connections
creates a hub in Teams where your frontline team can view a tailored
news feed from your organization and a personalized dashboard with
resources they need. When employees use Viva Connections, they’re able
to get important information faster, meaning that managers don’t have to
spend valuable time relaying updates. Surface key information,
personalized news, tasks, announcements, and other resources on the Viva
Connections Dashboard. For example, a retailer could share new product
and promotion announcements with their store associates, or a
fundraising coordinator for a nonprofit could share quarterly goals with
volunteers.

[width="100%",cols="<50%,<50%",options="header",]
|===
|View for a retail worker |View for a retail manager
|image:media/frontline-worker-1.png[Screenshot of the Viva Connections
Dashboard on a mobile device displaying information for a retail
worker.] |image:media/frontline-worker-2.png[Screenshot of the Viva
Connections Dashboard on a mobile device displaying information for a
retail manager.]
|===

Learn more about link:/sharepoint/viva-connections-overview[Viva
Connections] and help your employees and associates get started with
https://support.microsoft.com/office/your-intranet-is-now-in-microsoft-teams-8b4e7f76-f305-49a9-b6d2-09378476f95b[Viva
Connections in Microsoft Teams].

With Microsoft Teams, Viva Connections, and SharePoint, you can enable
these scenarios:

* Onboard new employees link:/sharepoint/onboard-employees[Learn how].
* Connect leadership teams with frontline workers
link:/sharepoint/leadership-connection[Learn how].
* Distribute news to your organization
link:/sharepoint/distribute-corporate-news-to-your-organization[Learn
how].

link:/sharepoint/corporate-communications-overview[Learn more about how
to drive communication in your organization].

=== Connect across your organization with Viva Engage

Engage with communities in Viva Engage, which brings the power of Yammer
into Teams. Communities in Viva Engage serve the needs of
knowledge-sharing, employee experience, company-wide communications, and
leadership engagement by providing a central place for your
conversations, files, events, and updates. Associates can raise issues,
provide feedback, and ask and answer questions in Viva Engage
Communities. Hold live events and town halls to keep everyone in your
organization in the loop.

You can create communities for individual locations, identity or
interest groups, or work groups such as nurses and financial advisors.

Learn more about link:/viva/engage/overview[Viva Engage] and help your
employees and associates
https://support.microsoft.com/topic/getting-started-with-microsoft-viva-engage-729f9fce-3aa6-4478-888c-a1543918c284[Get
started with Viva Engage].

More information about Viva Engage:

* link:/viva/engage/setup[Set up Viva Engage for your organization.]
* https://support.microsoft.com/topic/frequently-asked-questions-faq-about-microsoft-viva-engage-1209ec6f-b10d-4518-98fd-f33cca5212b8[Read
the Viva Engage FAQ.]

=== Connect over email with Exchange Online and Outlook

Email is a core communication tool for most workplaces.
link:flw-setup-microsoft-365.md#set-up-email-with-exchange-online[Set up
email with Exchange Online] and create mailboxes for your frontline
workers and managers so you can send broadcast communications over
email. Users must have an F3 license to have an email mailbox.
