= 
daisyfell

== Help your frontline workers track time and attendance

Now that your organization has begun using Shifts to manage schedules,
youâ€™ll need to make sure that your frontline workers understand how to
track their time and attendance.

Use your link:flw-corp-comms.md[corporate communications strategy] to
share Shifts training content with your team and make sure they have
access to the resources they need:

[arabic]
. Share the
https://support.microsoft.com/office/what-is-shifts-f8efe6e4-ddb3-4d23-b81b-bb812296b821[Shifts
video training] with your team to help them understand the basics.
. Share link:#shifts-videos-for-managers[Videos for frontline managers]
with your managers to help them set up and manage schedules for their
teams.
. Share link:#shifts-videos-for-users[Videos for users] with all of your
frontline staff to help them perform regular tasks such as clocking in
and swapping shifts.

=== Shifts videos for managers

Create a schedule with Shifts
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2202612[View Create a schedule
with Shifts on YouTube] > [!VIDEO
https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE546xr]

Copy a schedule with Shifts
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2202298[View Copy a schedule
with Shifts on YouTube] > [!VIDEO
https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE54jxu]

Reuse a weekly schedule from Excel with Shifts
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2202611[View Reuse a weekly
schedule from Excel with Shifts on YouTube] > [!VIDEO
https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE546xQ]

=== Shifts videos for users

Clocking in with Shifts
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2202613[View Clocking in with
Shifts on YouTube] > [!VIDEO
https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE54uyx]

Swap Shifts https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2202711[View Swap
Shifts on YouTube] > [!VIDEO
https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE54jBv]

Tags with Shifts https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2202712[View
Tags with Shifts on YouTube] > [!VIDEO
https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE5443n]
