= 
LanaChin

== Shifts for frontline workers

Shifts, the schedule management tool in Teams, keeps your frontline
workforce connected and in sync. It’s built mobile first for fast and
effective schedule management and communications. With Shifts, frontline
managers and workers can seamlessly manage schedules and keep in touch.

Managers can create, update, and manage shift schedules for their teams.
They can assign shifts, add open shifts, and approve schedule requests
from employees. Employees can view their own and their team’s schedules,
set their availability, request to swap or offer a shift, request time
off, and clock in and out.

____
{empty}[!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE42FjP]
____

Use the following resources to help you set up and manage Shifts in your
organization.

=== Set up and manage Shifts

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|  | 
|:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/administrator.png'':::
|*link:/microsoftteams/expand-teams-across-your-org/shifts/manage-the-shifts-app-for-your-organization-in-teams?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
Shifts]* Get an overview of how to manage Shifts for your organization.
Learn how to control access to Shifts, pin Shifts to the Teams app bar
for easy access, enable shift-based tags, and more.

|:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/users-people.png'':::
|*link:schedule-owner-for-shift-management.md[Manage schedule owners for
shift management]* This feature lets you elevate the permissions of a
team member to a schedule owner without making the employee a team
owner.

|:::image type=``icon'' source=``/office/media/icons/help.png'':::
|*link:/microsoftteams/expand-teams-across-your-org/shifts/shifts-data-faq?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Shifts
data FAQ]* Learn where Shifts data is stored and other topics related to
Shifts data, including retention, retrieval, and encryption.
|===

=== Shifts connectors

If you’re using a third-party workforce management (WFM) system for
scheduling, you can integrate directly with Shifts through managed
Shifts connectors. After you set up a connection, your frontline workers
can seamlessly view and manage their schedules in your WFM system from
within Shifts.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|  | 
|:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/connector-teams.png'':::
|*link:shifts-connectors.md[Overview]* Get an overview of Shifts
connectors and how they work. Learn about the managed connectors that
are available and the supported WFM systems.

|:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/connector-teams.png'':::
|*link:shifts-connectors.md#microsoft-teams-shifts-connector-for-blue-yonder[Teams
Shifts connector for Blue Yonder]*

|:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/connector-teams.png'':::
|*link:shifts-connectors.md#microsoft-teams-shifts-connector-for-ukg-dimensions[Teams
Shifts connector for UKG Dimensions]* (preview)

|:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/connector-teams.png'':::
|*link:shifts-connectors.md#reflexis-shifts-connector-for-microsoft-teams[Reflexis
Shifts connector for Microsoft Teams]* Learn about integrating Shifts
with the Reflexis WFM system through the connector.
|===

=== Shifts extensions

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|  | 
|:::image type=``icon'' source=``/office/media/icons/api.png'':::
|*link:/graph/api/resources/shift[Shift Graph APIs]* Shifts Graph APIs
allow you to integrate Shifts data with external WFM systems. You’ll
have the flexibility to build custom Shifts experiences in the back end,
while giving users a rich, front-end experience in Teams.

|:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/process-flow-teams.png'':::
|*https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Shifts-Power-Automate-Templates[Shifts
+ Power Automate]* Shifts + Power Automate lets you take info from
Shifts and create custom workflows with other apps and perform
operations at scale. Automate key processes with little to no code. The
triggers and templates support various scenarios such as enabling
auto-approvals for shift requests when a manager’s approval isn’t
needed.
|===

=== Featured training

[width="99%",cols="20%,16%,16%,16%,16%,16%",options="header",]
|===
|  |  |  |  |  | 
|:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/get-started-teams.png'':::
|https://support.office.com/article/what-is-shifts-f8efe6e4-ddb3-4d23-b81b-bb812296b821[Video:
What is Shifts?] |:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/calendar.png'':::
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/create-a-shifts-schedule-2b94ca38-36db-4a1c-8fee-f8f0fec9a984[Video:
Create a shifts schedule] |:::image type=``icon''
source=``/office/media/icons/blocks-teams.png'':::
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/manage-and-view-a-shifts-schedule-63acda7b-ea39-441a-b1c6-c404a72e79f7[Video:
Manage a Shifts schedule]
|===
