= 
samanro

== Get started with Microsoft 365 for retail organizations

Retail environments, with their rotating schedules and on-the-go staff,
have very different needs than other organizations. To get the most
benefit for your retail organization, you first choose which scenarios
Microsoft 365 and Microsoft Teams can help you with in your day-to-day
business operations, and then make sure that you prepare your Teams
environment with the right fundamentals, teams, and apps to support
those scenarios.

[arabic]
. link:#choose-your-scenarios[Choose your scenarios] you want to
implement for your business. :::image type=``content''
source=``media/retail-teams-scenarios.png'' alt-text=``Diagram showing
Teams scenarios for retail.''
lightbox=``media/retail-teams-scenarios.png'':::
. link:flw-setup-microsoft-365.md[Set up Microsoft 365] - Set up
Microsoft 365â€™s core elements, Microsoft Teams, and any other services
you need.
. link:#configure-services-and-apps[Configure services and apps] - Use
team templates to set up the teams you need quickly, including the
channels and apps you need for your business. Add in other apps from
Microsoft as needed to support your scenarios. :::image type=``content''
source=``media/retail-teams-apps.png'' alt-text=``Diagram showing teams,
team templates and apps that can be included.''
lightbox=``media/retail-teams-apps.png'':::

=== Choose your scenarios

Microsoft 365 and Microsoft Teams offer several capabilities that can
help retail organizations with their daily operations and digital
transformation. We recommend the following scenarios for retail
organizations:

link:#in-store-communication-and-collaboration[image:media/retail-scenarios-in-store.png[In-store
communication and collaboration.]]
link:#cross-store-communication-and-collaboration[image:media/retail-scenarios-cross-store.png[Cross-store
communication and collaboration.]]
link:#virtual-fittings-and-consultations[image:media/retail-scenarios-virtual-visits.png[Virtual
fittings and consultations.]]
link:#simplify-business-processes[image:media/retail-scenarios-business-processes.png[Simplify
business processes.]]
link:#corporate-communications[image:media/retail-scenarios-corp-comms.png[Corporate
communications.]]
link:#onboarding-new-employees[image:media/retail-scenarios-onboarding.png[Onboarding
new employees.]]

____
[!NOTE] These scenarios are also part of the Microsoft Cloud for Retail.
You can do more with these scenarios when you also use other
capabilities from the Microsoft Cloud for Retail, such as Microsoft
Dynamics 365. Learn more about using this solution, which brings
together capabilities from Azure, Dynamics 365, and Microsoft 365 at
link:/industry/retail[Microsoft Cloud for Retail].
____

==== Download a poster with scenario overviews

Use the following poster to start envisioning what your organization can
do with Microsoft 365 for frontline workers.

[width="100%",cols="<50%,<50%",options="header",]
|===
|Item |Description
|https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2206476[image:media/m365-frontline-retail-thumb.png[Microsoft
365 for frontline workers: Retail scenarios.]]
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2206476[PDF] |
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2206271[Visio] Updated September
2022 |This poster provides an overview of the scenarios you can
implement for your frontline workforce in a retail setting.
|===

==== Video overviews

Watch the following video to see how you can help your store associates
connect and collaborate:

____
{empty}[!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RWRJVw]
____

Watch the following video to see how you can simplify business processes
in retail environments:

____
{empty}[!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RWRzfc]
____

==== In-store communication and collaboration

Bring in-store associates and management together to collaborate and
streamline operations with Teams and Teams apps.

*Key apps:* Shifts, Walkie Talkie, Tasks, Approvals, Chat, Praise,
Lists, Files, Updates

*Additional services:* Outlook, Viva Connections, SharePoint, Power
Platform and Power Apps

More information: link:flw-team-collaboration.md[Frontline team
collaboration]

==== Cross-store communication and collaboration

Staff members can communicate and collaboration across multiple stores
in a region, or with headquarters using the same tools and apps you use
within your store.

*Key apps:* Shifts, Walkie Talkie, Tasks, Approvals, Chat, Praise,
Lists, Files, Updates

*Additional services:* Outlook, Viva Connections, Viva Engage,
SharePoint, Power Platform and Power Apps

More information: link:flw-team-collaboration.md[Frontline team
collaboration]

==== Virtual fittings and consultations

Use the Virtual Appointments app (Preview) or the Bookings app in
Microsoft Teams to schedule and manage virtual appointments such as
virtual shopping experiences for associates and customers.

*Key features and apps:* meetings, Virtual Appointments (Preview),
Bookings

More information: link:virtual-appointments.md[Virtual Appointments with
Microsoft Teams]

==== Simplify business processes

You can use Teams apps, Power Apps, and Power BI to simplify business
processes. For example, you can:

* Set and maintain schedules for your employees with Shifts.
* Conduct store walks and inventories with Power Apps.
* Track key performance indicators (KPIs) with Power BI reports.

*Key apps:* Shifts, Tasks, Lists, Approvals

*Additional services:* Power Platform with Power Apps and Power BI

More information: link:simplify-business-processes.md[Simplify business
processes]

==== Corporate communications

Employee engagement is a significant contributor to workplace
satisfaction, loyalty, and productivity at any organization. Learn how
to keep everyone informed and engaged using SharePoint, Teams, Viva
Engage, Stream, and Viva Connections.

*Additional services:* Viva Connections, SharePoint, Stream, Viva Engage

More information: link:flw-corp-comms.md[Corporate communications with
frontline workers]

==== Onboarding new employees

Make new employee onboarding a great experience by fostering an
all-in-one hybrid work environment where new employees can find
important resources, meet people in their organization, and prepare to
be successful in their new role.

*Key apps:* Lists, Live Meetings

*Additional services:* Viva Learning, SharePoint, Viva Engage

More information: link:flw-onboarding-training.md[Onboard new employees]

____
[!NOTE] For all of these capabilities, users must have an appropriate
license. Microsoft 365 for frontline workers F1 and F3 or Office 365 F3,
Office 365 A3, A5, E3, and E5, as well as Microsoft 365 Business
Standard, Business Premium, A3, A5, E3, and E5 are all supported. For
more information about general Teams licensing, see
link:/microsoftteams//user-access[Manage user access to Teams]. See
link:flw-licensing-options.md[Licensing options for frontline workers]
for more about using Microsoft 365 for frontline workers in combination
with other licenses.
____

=== Configure services and apps

:::image type=``content'' source=``media/retail-teams-apps.png''
alt-text=``Diagram of teams, team templates and apps that can be
included.'':::

==== Apps and services for retail

Ensure that your workers can communicate, collaborate, and deliver great
customer service with apps like Shifts, Walkie Talkie, Tasks, Lists,
Praise, and more. You can determine which apps are available for your
users by enabling them in the Teams admin center or by including them in
a team template. More information about
link:/microsoftteams/manage-apps[managing Teams apps].

For retail environments, the following apps and services can help you
transform your business processes and support communication:

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|===
|Teams apps and services |Description |Manage |Help
|Approvals |Approvals can be integrated into chat for easy sign-off.
|link:/microsoftteams/approval-admin?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
Approvals]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/what-is-approvals-a9a01c95-e0bf-4d20-9ada-f7be3fc283d3[Use
Approvals]

|Chat |Enable quick conversations and checkins between staff with
secure, enterprise-grade communications tools, instead of consumer grade
apps or SMS.
|link:/microsoftteams/deploy-chat-teams-channels-microsoft-teams-landing-page[Chat&#44;
teams&#44; channels & apps in Microsoft Teams]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/start-and-pin-chats-a864b052-5e4b-4ccf-b046-2e26f40e21b5?wt.mc_id=otc_microsoft_teams[Chat
in Teams]

|Documents |Share standard operating procedures, store policies, plans,
and more. |link:/sharepoint/teams-connected-sites[Teams and SharePoint
integration]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/upload-and-share-files-57b669db-678e-424e-b0a0-15d19215cb12[Share
files]

|Praise |Recognize coworkers for great teamwork with the Praise app.
|link:/microsoftteams/manage-praise-app?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
the Praise app]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/send-praise-to-people-50f26b47-565f-40fe-8642-5ca2a5ed261e[Send
Praise to people]

|RealWear devices |Handsfree communication with devices.
|link:/microsoftteams/flw-realwear?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Microsoft
Teams for RealWear]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/using-microsoft-teams-for-realwear-af20d232-d18c-476f-8031-843a4edccd5f[Use
Microsoft Teams for RealWear]

|Shifts |Manage schedules and clock in and out with Shifts.
|link:/microsoftteams/expand-teams-across-your-org/shifts/manage-the-shifts-app-for-your-organization-in-teams?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
the Shifts app]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/what-is-shifts-f8efe6e4-ddb3-4d23-b81b-bb812296b821[Use
Shifts]

|Tasks |Help employees know what they should focus on when not with
customers by assigning tasks. Operations can use
link:/microsoftteams/manage-tasks-app?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json#task-publishing[task
publishing] to send out tasks to locations and track progress across
those locations.
|link:/microsoftteams/manage-tasks-app?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
the Tasks app]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/use-the-tasks-app-in-teams-e32639f3-2e07-4b62-9a8c-fd706c12c070[Use
Tasks]

|Updates |Check in on recurring or one-off priorities such as daily
cleaning. Managers can create templates for employees to fill out and
submit.
|link:/microsoftteams/manage-updates-app?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
the Updates app]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/get-started-in-updates-c03a079e-e660-42dc-817b-ca4cfd602e5a[Use
Updates]

|Walkie Talkie |Push to talk quick communication thatâ€™s not constrained
by geography like standard 2-way radios.
|link:/microsoftteams/walkie-talkie?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
the Walkie Talkie app]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/get-started-with-teams-walkie-talkie-25bdc3d5-bbb2-41b7-89bf-650fae0c8e0c[Use
Walkie Talkie]

|Virtual Appointments (Preview) |A central hub for all your virtual
appointment needs. Schedule and manage virtual fittings and
consultations, view analytics, and configure options, all in one place.
|link:/microsoftteams/manage-virtual-appointments-app?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
the Virtual Appointments app] |-

|Bookings |Schedule and manage virtual fittings and consultations.
|link:/microsoftteams/bookings-app-admin?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Manage
the Bookings app] |link:bookings-virtual-appointments.md[Virtual
Appointments with Teams and the Bookings app]
|===

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|===
|More apps and services from Microsoft |Description |Manage |Help
|Power Apps and the Power Platform |Integrate business processes and
enable quick updates to data, such as store inventory, sales numbers,
incident reports, and more.
|link:/microsoftteams/platform/samples/teams-low-code-solutions[Teams
integration with Microsoft Power Platform] and
link:/microsoftteams/manage-power-platform-apps[Manage Microsoft Power
Platform apps in the Microsoft Teams admin center] |-

|SharePoint |When you create a new team, a new SharePoint site is
created and connected to the team. Many of the scenarios above rely on
SharePoint features already embedded in Teams, such as sharing documents
for team collaboration. |link:/sharepoint/teams-connected-sites[Teams
and SharePoint integration]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/add-a-sharepoint-page-list-or-document-library-as-a-tab-in-teams-131edef1-455f-4c67-a8ce-efa2ebf25f0b[Add
a SharePoint page&#44; list&#44; or document library as a tab in Teams]

|Viva Connections |Viva Connections creates a hub in Teams where your
retail associates can view a tailored news feed from your organization
and a personalized dashboard with resources they need.
|link:/sharepoint/viva-connections-overview[Overview of Viva
Connections]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/your-intranet-is-now-in-microsoft-teams-8b4e7f76-f305-49a9-b6d2-09378476f95b[Viva
Connections in Microsoft Teams]

|Viva Learning |Provide training when needed, right in the flow of their
work. |link:/microsoft-365/learning/[Manage Viva Learning]
|https://support.microsoft.com/office/viva-learning-preview-01bfed12-c327-41e0-a68f-7fa527dcc98a[Use
Viva Learning]

|Viva Engage |Connect your organization and allow communication across
departments and regions with Viva Engage.
|link:/viva/engage/overview[Overview of Viva Engage]
|https://support.microsoft.com/topic/getting-started-with-microsoft-viva-engage-729f9fce-3aa6-4478-888c-a1543918c284[Use
Viva Engage]
|===

==== Retail templates for teams

Create teams that include a predefined set of settings, channels, tabs,
and pre-installed apps for communication and collaboration within an
individual store, with a region, or between headquarters and your staff
wherever they are.

* The Retail *Organize a store* template includes channels for General,
Shift Handoff, Store Readiness, and Learning, and includes the
Approvals, Tasks, and Wiki apps.
* The *Retail for managers* template includes channels for General,
Operations, and Learning, and includes a Wiki tab.

You can also link:/microsoftteams/create-a-team-template[create a custom
template] to include the apps your store needs. More information:
link:/microsoftteams/get-started-with-retail-teams-templates?bc=/microsoft-365/frontline/breadcrumb/toc.json&toc=/microsoft-365/frontline/toc.json[Get
started with Retail team templates]

=== Get ready to roll out your scenarios - identify roles and responsibilities for scenarios

Now that you know what scenarios you want to implement and what you need
to support them, you can gather your team so you can plan, roll out, and
monitor how theyâ€™re working in your organization. For example, the
following roles might be needed to roll out these scenarios in your
organization:

[width="100%",cols="24%,22%,27%,27%",options="header",]
|===
|Image |Role |Responsibilities |Department
| |IT Administrator |Work with operations and retail management staff to
define scenarios and how theyâ€™ll work for the organization. Configure
settings in the Teams admin center, such as policies and templates, and
enable apps. Set up app settings (such as global Shifts settings) for
the organization. Add and license users. |IT department

| |Operations staff |Work with Administrators to define scenarios, and
determine which settings, policies, templates, and apps are needed for
Teams. Create regional or divisional teams from templates. Set up tasks,
lists, and approval flows for coordination between stores within a
region, or between stores and headquarters. Set up learning framework
for staff. |Central operations

| |Store manager |Work with Administrators and Operations staff to
define scenarios. Create teams for the store from templates. Set up
channels and apps for the teams, as needed. For example: a channel for
shift handovers. Set up store schedules in Shifts. Set up tasks, lists,
updates, and approval flows that are specific to the store. Set up
learning tasks for staff. |Store management
|===

For more about successfully implementing and adopting Teams, see
link:/microsoftteams/adopt-microsoft-teams-landing-page[Adopt Microsoft
Teams].
