= 
Tinacyt

== Downloading and Analyzing Test Result Files

*Test Base for Microsoft 365* generates downloadable event trace log
(ETL) files that collect low-level data based on application testing.
These trace files contain event data that is captured during test
execution, from which memory utilization, CPU utilization, and other
performance data is derived.

Additional relevant test execution results data that you can analyze is
described in the table that follows. The data folders listed in the
table below exist within the a *logs.zip* folder that is accessible from
the *Log files: Download* link in the Test Base results for an
application that completed testing against a specified operating system
version.

=== Table 1. Data Sources for Performance and Results Analysis

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|===
|Data Folder |Performance or Results Data Source |FileType |Description
|package |Application installation results (.log) |.log |See app
installation and script logs.

|performance |Performance counters (.csv) |.csv |Review Perf counter
data.

|results |Exit codes (.csv) |.csv |See application exit codes.

|scripts |Script log files (.log) |.log |Analyze script stderr and
stdout logs.

|systemInfo |System information (.json) |.json |Review system
information data.

|trace |% Memory utilization by process |.csv |Evaluate utilization
results data.

|trace |% CPU utilization by process |.csv |Evaluate utilization results
data.

|trace |WPA Trace |.etl |Performance trace to be analyzed in WPA.

|winEvt |Event Viewer (.evtx) |.evtx |Examine application event logs.
|===

If you choose not to download the log files because you would rather
analyze data in the *Test Base* web view, you have the option to observe
certain data from the *Script execution* tab. To do so, click the linked
name of an individual script and view the *Log Output* directly in the
portal, as shown in the right-hand sector of the figure that follows.

:::image type=``content''
source=``Media/downloadingandanalyzingtestresultfiles01.png''
alt-text=``Screenshot shows Scripts Execution Results.''
lightbox=``Media/downloadingandanalyzingtestresultfiles01.png'':::

*Figure 6. Viewing log output in the Script Execution tab*
