= 
mansipatel-usl

== Functional testing

As a software publisher, you can now perform custom functional tests,
using the test framework of your choice - via the self-serve Test Base
for Microsoft 365 portal.

When we initially launched the service, we offered the Out-of-box tests,
which is a pre-defined set of tests driven through standardized
scripting. However, this couldn’t achieve full test coverage for many
Independent Software Vendors (ISVs).

Hence, in response to your feedback, we’re providing our ISVs with the
ability to upload automated functional tests.

To use this feature, follow the steps below:

[arabic]
. Upload your files (binaries, dependencies and scripts) as a single
.zip package.
. Choose if you want to reboot the test Virtual Machines (VMs) at
various points of execution.
. Manage available options for your scripts.
. Choose when to apply the Windows update on the VM during execution.

Detailed descriptions of the above steps are highlighted below:

*Upload a functional test package*

To get started, navigate to the Upload page, select Upload new
application under Application catalog on the left-side navigation menu
of the Test Base for M365 portal in Azure. From there:

Tab 1 - Enter basic information. Provide the name and version of your
application. In the Type of test option, select `Functional tests`.

_The Out-of-Box (OOB) option is required by default._

image::Media/functional_testing_tab1.png[Select the functional testing
tab.]

Tab 2 - Upload the components of your package by uploading a zip file
with your entire test (binaries, dependencies, scripts etc).

See aka.ms/usl-package-outline for details. (Note: Both the Out-of-Box
test scripts and the Functional test contents should be placed into the
same zip file). Currently, the file size is limited to 2 GB.

Tab 3 - Configure the Out-of-Box and Functional test tasks. Here, choose
the path(s) to the PowerShell scripts that will install, launch, close,
and uninstall your application (for Out-of-Box) and the path(s) to all
your custom scripts to perform your functional test. *(Note: A script to
uninstall your application is optional).*

Currently, you can upload 1 to 8 scripts for your functional tests.
(Kindly comment on this post if you need more scripts!)

image::Media/functional_testing_tab3.png[Upload up to 8 scripts with
functional tests.]

(Optional) You can configure a restart after installation. Some
applications require a restart after installation.

Select `Reboot After Execution` for the specific Script in the Tasks tab
if you would like a restart to be conducted after the execution of that
script.

Tab 4 - Choose when the Windows update gets installed: The application
of the Windows Update patch is done before any script of your choice.
It’s recommended that you install a Windows update after the
application’s installation to closely mimic your real-world application
use scenarios.

image::Media/functional_testing_tab4.png[The Windows update can get
installed after a specific script.]

Tab 5 - Review and create the package. Once you have completed the steps
listed above, select `Create` to finish the uploading process.

Once your package has been created, you can check the verification
status of your package.

We run an initial test to install, launch, close, and uninstall your
application. It allows us to verify that your package can install on our
service error-free.

The verification process could take up to 24 hours. Once verification is
complete, you can see the status in the `Manage packages` menu, which
would be one of two entries:

[arabic]
. Verification succeeds: The package will be automatically tested
against pre-release Windows updates for the OS builds you selected. or
. Verification fails: You’ll need to investigate the reasons for the
failure, fix the issue, and reupload your package.

You’ll also be notified of either outcome via the notification icon in
the Azure portal.
