= 
Tinacyt

== Viewing Script Execution Results

To display the Test Results for script execution, perform the steps that
follow.

[arabic]
. Select the *Security update results* under the *Insights* menu
category.
. In the *Security update results* display, select the values for your
package in the following drop-downs: *Package name, Package version,
Operating system, Release*, and *Release build version*.
. Under a test type such as *Functional test* or *Out of box test*,
click *See details* in the *Script execution* row to view detailed
script test results in the *Script execution* tab *Summary*.

Detailed results appear, such as a script *Pass* or *Fail* indication in
the test *Result* column; an *Exit Code, Start datetime, End datetime,
Failed* %, and so on; versus the original security or feature update
release dates from the Service team; for example, *5B* or *6B* (release
dates for the second Tuesday of specified month, May (10) or June (7).
See Figure 1 that follows for more details in the *Script execution* tab
*Summary*.

An Execution request ID for tests related to each release is provided,
as are KB articles for more technical information. Tests are typically
run after a product team releases its original public updates.

____
[!NOTE] Upon successful test execution, a script should return a value
of zero (0). If an error occurs during execution, a script should return
an error code with a non-zero-value.
____

____
[!IMPORTANT] Avoid coding your scripts to reboot a machine. If a reboot
is necessary, please specify the Reboot enabled tag to the script during
the script configuration and upload process, as described in Test Base
documentation. For further details, see For more details, see
link:contentguideline.md[Package guidelines] and
link:rules.md[Application/Test rules].
____

:::image type=``content'' source=``Media/scriptexecution01.png''
alt-text=``Screenshot shows Script Execution Summary.''
lightbox=``Media/scriptexecution01.png'':::

*Figure 1. Script execution summary page*

On the *Script Execution* tab, the *Summary* that is presented specifies
the results of test execution for each script you uploaded when creating
and configuring your application package. This will include Out-of-box
test scripts and any Functional test scripts you may have provided. As a
result of script execution, various forms of output information are
generated and stored in a folder named *logs.zip*. This folder contains
subfolders in which additional information is accessible, as described
in the table of link:download-analyze-test-result-files.md[Downloading
and Analyzing Test Result Files].

If you want to view the logged output of individual script execution
only, select script names one at a time on the *Script execution* tab to
display the *Log Output* pane, from where you can view script output
results that include the *Script name, Start datetime, End datetime*,
and the output text. Note that you can also filter the content to
display *sdout* or *stderr* output, as shown in the previous figure.
