= 
dansimp
:keywords: SIEM, API, AIR, autoIR, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint,
automated investigation, integration, custom report

== Custom or third-party reporting solutions for Microsoft Defender for Office 365

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/mdo-trial-banner.md[MDO Trial banner]]

*Applies to* - link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender for
Office 365 plan 2] -
link:../defender/microsoft-365-defender.md[Microsoft 365 Defender]

With link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender for Office 365],
you get link:air-view-investigation-results.md[detailed information
about automated investigations]. However, some organizations also use a
custom or third-party reporting solution. If your organization wants to
integrate information about link:air-about.md[automated investigations]
with such a solution, you can use the Office 365 Management Activity
API.

With link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender for Office 365],
you get link:air-view-investigation-results.md[detailed information
about automated investigations]. However, some organizations also use a
custom or third-party reporting solution. If your organization wants to
integrate information about automated investigations with such a
solution, you can use the Office 365 Management Activity API.

[width="100%",cols="<50%,<50%",options="header",]
|===
|Resource |Description
|link:/office/office-365-management-api/office-365-management-apis-overview[Office
365 Management APIs overview] |The Office 365 Management Activity API
provides information about various user, admin, system, and policy
actions and events from Microsoft 365 and Azure Active Directory
activity logs.

|link:/office/office-365-management-api/get-started-with-office-365-management-apis[Get
started with Office 365 Management APIs] |The Office 365 Management API
uses Azure AD to provide authentication services for your application to
access Microsoft 365 data. Follow the steps in this article to set this
up.

|link:/office/office-365-management-api/office-365-management-activity-api-reference[Office
365 Management Activity API reference] |You can use the Office 365
Management Activity API to retrieve information about user, admin,
system, and policy actions and events from Microsoft 365 and Azure AD
activity logs. Read this article to learn more about how this works.

|link:/office/office-365-management-api/office-365-management-activity-api-schema[Office
365 Management Activity API schema] |Get an overview of the
link:/office/office-365-management-api/office-365-management-activity-api-schema#common-schema[Common
schema] and the
link:/office/office-365-management-api/office-365-management-activity-api-schema#office-365-advanced-threat-protection-and-threat-investigation-and-response-schema[Defender
for Office 365 and threat investigation and response schema] to learn
about specific kinds of data available through the Office 365 Management
Activity API.
|===

=== See also

* link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender for Office 365]
* link:/microsoft-365/security/defender/m365d-autoir[Automated
investigation and response in Microsoft 365 Defender]
