= 
kccross

== Protection features in Azure Information Protection rolling out to existing tenants

*Applies to* - link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender for
Office 365 plan 2] -
link:../defender/microsoft-365-defender.md[Microsoft 365 Defender]

To help with the initial step in protecting your information, starting
July 2018 all Azure Information Protection eligible tenants will have
the protection features in Azure Information Protection turned on by
default. The protection features in Azure Information Protection were
formerly known in Office 365 as Rights Management or Azure RMS. If your
organization has an Office E3 service plan or a higher service plan you
will now get a head start protecting information through Azure
Information Protection when we roll out these features.

=== Changes beginning July 1, 2018

Starting July 1, 2018, Microsoft will enable the protection capability
in Azure Information Protection for all organizations with one of the
following subscription plans:

* Office 365 Message Encryption is offered as part of Office 365 E3 and
E5, Microsoft E3 and E5, Office 365 A1, A3, and A5, and Office 365 G3
and G5. You do not need additional licenses to receive the new
protection capabilities powered by Azure Information Protection.
* You can also add Azure Information Protection Plan 1 to the following
plans to receive the new Office 365 Message Encryption capabilities:
Exchange Online Plan 1, Exchange Online Plan 2, Office 365 F1, Microsoft
365 Business Basic, Microsoft 365 Business Standard, or Office 365
Enterprise E1.
* Each user benefiting from Office 365 Message Encryption needs to be
licensed to be covered by the feature.
* For the full list, see the
link:/office365/servicedescriptions/exchange-online-service-description/exchange-online-service-description[Exchange
Online service descriptions] for Office 365 Message Encryption.

Tenant administrators can check the protection status in the Office 365
administrator portal.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/303453c8-e4a5-4875-b49f-e80c3eb7b91e.png''
alt-text=``The rights management in Office 365 which is activated''
lightbox=``../../media/303453c8-e4a5-4875-b49f-e80c3eb7b91e.png'':::

=== Why are we making this change?

Office 365 Message Encryption leverages the protection capabilities in
Azure Information Protection. At the heart of the recent improvements to
Office 365 Message Encryption and our broader investments to information
protection in Microsoft 365, we are making it easier for organizations
to turn on and use our protection capabilities, as historically,
encryption technologies have been difficult to set up. By turning on the
protection features in Azure Information Protection by default, you can
quickly get started to protect your sensitive data.

=== Does this impact me?

If your organization has purchased an eligible Office 365 license, then
your tenant will be impacted by this change.

____
[!IMPORTANT] If you’re using Active Directory Rights Management Services
(AD RMS) in your on-premises environment, you must either opt-out of
this change immediately or migrate to Azure Information Protection
before we roll out this change within the next 30 days. For information
on how to opt-out, see ``I use AD RMS, how do I opt out?'' later in this
article. If you prefer to migrate, see
link:/azure/information-protection/plan-design/migrate-from-ad-rms-to-azure-rms[Migrating
from AD RMS to Azure Information Protection.].
____

=== Can I use Azure Information Protection with Active Directory Rights Management Services (AD RMS)?

No. This is not a supported deployment scenario. Without taking the
additional opt-out steps, some computers might automatically start using
the Azure Rights Management service and also connect to your AD RMS
cluster. This scenario isn’t supported and has unreliable results, so
it’s important that you opt out of this change within the next 30 days
before we roll out these new features. For information on how to
opt-out, see ``I use AD RMS, how do I opt out?'' later in this article.
If you prefer to migrate, see
link:/azure/information-protection/plan-design/migrate-from-ad-rms-to-azure-rms[Migrating
from AD RMS to Azure Information Protection.]

=== How do I know if I’m using AD RMS?

Use these instructions from
link:/azure/information-protection/deploy-use/prepare-environment-adrms[Preparing
the environment for Azure Rights Management when you also have Active
Directory Rights Management Services (AD RMS)] to check if you have
deployed AD RMS:

[arabic]
. Although optional, most AD RMS deployments publish the service
connection point (SCP) to Active Directory so that domain computers can
discover the AD RMS cluster.
+
Use ADSI Edit to see whether you have an SCP published in Active
Directory: CN=Configuration [server name], CN=Services,
CN=RightsManagementServices, CN=SCP
. If you are not using an SCP, Windows computers that connect to an AD
RMS cluster must be configured for client-side service discovery or
licensing redirection by using the Windows registry:
`HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\MSIPC\ServiceLocation or HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\MSIPC\ServiceLocation`.

For more information about these registry configurations, see
link:/azure/information-protection/rms-client/client-deployment-notes#enabling-client-side-service-discovery-by-using-the-windows-registry[Enabling
client-side service discovery by using the Windows registry] and
link:/azure/information-protection/rms-client/client-deployment-notes#redirecting-licensing-server-traffic[Redirecting
licensing server traffic].

=== I use AD RMS, how do I opt out?

To opt out of the upcoming change, complete these steps:

[arabic]
. Using a work or school account that has global administrator
permissions in your organization, start a Windows PowerShell session and
connect to Exchange Online. For instructions, see
link:/powershell/exchange/connect-to-exchange-online-powershell[Connect
to Exchange Online PowerShell].
. Run the Set-IRMConfiguration cmdlet using the following syntax:

[source,powershell]
----
Set-IRMConfiguration -AutomaticServiceUpdateEnabled $false
----

=== What can I expect after this change has been made?

Once this is enabled, provided you haven’t opted out, you can start
using the new version of Office 365 Message Encryption which was
announced at
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Security-Privacy-and-Compliance/Email-Encryption-and-Rights-Protection/ba-p/110801[Microsoft
Ignite 2017] and leverages the encryption and protection capabilities of
Azure Information Protection.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/599ca9e7-c05a-429e-ae8d-359f1291a3d8.png''
alt-text=``An OME protected message in Outlook on the web''
lightbox=``../../media/599ca9e7-c05a-429e-ae8d-359f1291a3d8.png'':::

For more information about the new enhancements, see
link:../../compliance/ome.md[Office 365 Message Encryption].
