= 
chrisda

== Bulk complaint level (BCL) in EOP

*Applies to* - link:exchange-online-protection-overview.md[Exchange
Online Protection] - link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender
for Office 365 plan 1 and plan 2] -
link:../defender/microsoft-365-defender.md[Microsoft 365 Defender]

In Microsoft 365 organizations with mailboxes in Exchange Online or
standalone Exchange Online Protection (EOP) organizations without
Exchange Online mailboxes, EOP assigns a bulk complaint level (BCL) to
inbound messages from bulk mailers. The BCL is added to the message in
an X-header and is similar to the link:spam-confidence-levels.md[spam
confidence level (SCL)] that’s used to identify messages as spam. A
higher BCL indicates a bulk message is more likely to generate
complaints (and is therefore more likely to be spam). Microsoft uses
both internal and third party sources to identify bulk mail and
determine the appropriate BCL.

Bulk mailers vary in their sending patterns, content creation, and
recipient acquisition practices. Good bulk mailers send desired messages
with relevant content to their subscribers. These messages generate few
complaints from recipients. Other bulk mailers send unsolicited messages
that closely resemble spam and generate many complaints from recipients.
Messages from a bulk mailer are known as bulk mail or gray mail.

Spam filtering marks messages as *Bulk email* based on the BCL threshold
(the default value or a value you specify) and takes the specified
action on the message (the default action is deliver the message to the
recipient’s Junk Email folder). For more information, see
link:configure-your-spam-filter-policies.md[Configure anti-spam
policies] and
link:what-s-the-difference-between-junk-email-and-bulk-email.md[What’s
the difference between junk email and bulk email?]

The BCL thresholds are described in the following table.

[width="100%",cols="^63%,37%",options="header",]
|===
|BCL |Description
|0 |The message isn’t from a bulk sender.

|1, 2, 3 |The message is from a bulk sender that generates few
complaints.

|4, 5, 6, 7* |The message is from a bulk sender that generates a mixed
number of complaints.

|8, 9 |The message is from a bulk sender that generates a high number of
complaints.
|===

* This is the default threshold value that’s used in anti-spam policies.
