= 
dansimp

== Prerequisite work for implementing Zero Trust identity and device access policies

This article describes the prerequisites admins must meet to use
recommended Zero Trust identity and device access policies, and to use
Conditional Access. It also discusses the recommended defaults for
configuring client platforms for the best single sign-on (SSO)
experience.

=== Prerequisites

Before using the Zero Trust identity and device access policies that are
recommended, your organization needs to meet prerequisites. The
requirements are different for the various identity and authentication
models listed:

* Cloud-only
* Hybrid with password hash sync (PHS) authentication
* Hybrid with pass-through authentication (PTA)
* Federated

The following table details the prerequisite features and their
configuration that apply to all identity models, except where noted.

[width="100%",cols="28%,^45%,27%",options="header",]
|===
|Configuration |Exceptions |Licensing
|link:/azure/active-directory/hybrid/how-to-connect-password-hash-synchronization[Configure
PHS]. This must be enabled to detect leaked credentials and to act on
them for risk-based Conditional Access. *Note:* This is required
regardless of whether your organization uses federated authentication.
|Cloud-only |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/connect/active-directory-aadconnect-sso[Enable
seamless single sign-on] to automatically sign users in when they are on
their organization devices connected to your organization network.
|Cloud-only and federated |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/quickstart-configure-named-locations[Configure
named locations]. Azure AD Identity Protection collects and analyzes all
available session data to generate a risk score. We recommend you
specify your organization’s public IP ranges for your network in the
Azure AD named locations configuration. Traffic coming from these ranges
is given a reduced risk score, and traffic from outside the organization
environment is given a higher risk score. | |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-registration-mfa-sspr-converged[Register
all users for self-service password reset (SSPR) and multifactor
authentication (MFA)]. We recommend you register users for Azure AD
Multifactor Authentication ahead of time. Azure AD Identity Protection
makes use of Azure AD Multifactor Authentication to perform additional
security verification. Additionally, for the best sign-in experience, we
recommend users install the
link:/azure/active-directory/user-help/microsoft-authenticator-app-how-to[Microsoft
Authenticator app] and the Microsoft Company Portal app on their
devices. These can be installed from the app store for each platform. |
|Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/active-directory-conditional-access-automatic-device-registration-setup[Enable
automatic device registration of domain-joined Windows computers].
Conditional Access will make sure devices connecting to apps are
domain-joined or compliant. To support this on Windows computers, the
device must be registered with Azure AD. This article discusses how to
configure automatic device registration. |Cloud-only |Microsoft 365 E3
or E5

|*Prepare your support team*. Have a plan in place for users that cannot
complete MFA. This could be adding them to a policy exclusion group, or
registering new MFA information for them. Before making either of these
security-sensitive changes, you need to ensure that the actual user is
making the request. Requiring users’ managers to help with the approval
is an effective step. | |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/active-directory-passwords-getting-started[Configure
password writeback to on-premises AD]. Password writeback allows Azure
AD to require that users change their on-premises passwords when a
high-risk account compromise is detected. You can enable this feature
using Azure AD Connect in one of two ways: either enable *Password
Writeback* in the optional features screen of Azure AD Connect setup, or
enable it via Windows PowerShell. |Cloud-only |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-password-ban-bad[Configure
Azure AD password protection]. Azure AD Password Protection detects and
blocks known weak passwords and their variants, and can also block
additional weak terms that are specific to your organization. Default
global banned password lists are automatically applied to all users in
an Azure AD tenant. You can define additional entries in a custom banned
password list. When users change or reset their passwords, these banned
password lists are checked to enforce the use of strong passwords. |
|Microsoft 365 E3 or E5

|link:/azure/active-directory/identity-protection/overview-identity-protection[Enable
Azure Active Directory Identity Protection]. Azure AD Identity
Protection enables you to detect potential vulnerabilities affecting
your organization’s identities and configure an automated remediation
policy to low, medium, and high sign-in risk and user risk. | |Microsoft
365 E5 or Microsoft 365 E3 with the E5 Security add-on

|*Enable modern authentication* for
link:/Exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/enable-or-disable-modern-authentication-in-exchange-online[Exchange
Online] and for
https://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/34339.skype-for-business-online-enable-your-tenant-for-modern-authentication.aspx[Skype
for Business Online]. Modern authentication is a prerequisite for using
MFA. Modern authentication is enabled by default for Office 2016 and
2019 clients, SharePoint, and OneDrive for Business. | |Microsoft 365 E3
or E5

|link:microsoft-365-continuous-access-evaluation.md[Enable continuous
access evaluation] for Azure AD. Continuous access evaluation
proactively terminates active user sessions and enforces tenant policy
changes in near real-time. | |Microsoft 365 E3 or E5
|===

=== Recommended client configurations

This section describes the default platform client configurations we
recommend to provide the best SSO experience to your users, as well as
the technical prerequisites for Conditional Access.

==== Windows devices

We recommend Windows 11 or Windows 10 (version 2004 or later), as Azure
is designed to provide the smoothest SSO experience possible for both
on-premises and Azure AD. Work or school-issued devices should be
configured to join Azure AD directly or if the organization uses
on-premises AD domain join, those devices should be
link:/azure/active-directory/active-directory-conditional-access-automatic-device-registration-setup[configured
to automatically and silently register with Azure AD].

For BYOD Windows devices, users can use *Add work or school account*.
Note that users of the Google Chrome browser on Windows 11 or Windows 10
devices need to
https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/windows-10-accounts/ppnbnpeolgkicgegkbkbjmhlideopiji?utm_source=chrome-app-launcher-info-dialog[install
an extension] to get the same smooth sign-in experience as Microsoft
Edge users. Also, if your organization has domain-joined Windows 8 or
8.1 devices, you can install Microsoft Workplace Join for non-Windows 10
computers.
https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=53554[Download the
package to register] the devices with Azure AD.

==== iOS devices

We recommend installing the
link:/azure/multi-factor-authentication/end-user/microsoft-authenticator-app-how-to[Microsoft
Authenticator app] on user devices before deploying Conditional Access
or MFA policies. At a minimum, the app should be installed when users
are asked to register their device with Azure AD by adding a work or
school account, or when they install the Intune company portal app to
enroll their device into management. This depends on the configured
Conditional Access policy.

==== Android devices

We recommend users install the
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.microsoft.windowsintune.companyportal&hl=en[Intune
Company Portal app] and
link:/azure/multi-factor-authentication/end-user/microsoft-authenticator-app-how-to[Microsoft
Authenticator app] before Conditional Access policies are deployed or
when required during certain authentication attempts. After app
installation, users may be asked to register with Azure AD or enroll
their device with Intune. This depends on the configured Conditional
Access policy.

We also recommend that organization-owned devices are standardized on
OEMs and versions that support Android for Work or Samsung Knox to allow
mail accounts, be managed and protected by Intune MDM policy.

==== Recommended email clients

The following email clients support modern authentication and
Conditional Access.

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Platform |Client |Version/Notes
|*Windows* |Outlook |2019, 2016, 2013

|*iOS* |Outlook for iOS
|https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/microsoft-outlook-email-and-calendar/id951937596?mt=8[Latest]

|*Android* |Outlook for Android
|https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.microsoft.office.outlook&hl=en[Latest]

|*macOS* |Outlook |2019 and 2016

|*Linux* |Not supported |
|===

==== Recommended client platforms when securing documents

The following clients are recommended when a secure documents policy has
been applied.

[width="99%",cols="20%,16%,16%,16%,16%,16%",options="header",]
|===
|Platform |Word/Excel/PowerPoint |OneNote |OneDrive App |SharePoint App
|link:/onedrive/enable-conditional-access[OneDrive sync client]
|Windows 11 or Windows 10 |Supported |Supported |N/A |N/A |Supported

|Windows 8.1 |Supported |Supported |N/A |N/A |Supported

|Android |Supported |Supported |Supported |Supported |N/A

|iOS |Supported |Supported |Supported |Supported |N/A

|macOS |Supported |Supported |N/A |N/A |Not supported

|Linux |Not supported |Not supported |Not supported |Not supported |Not
supported
|===

==== Microsoft 365 client support

For more information about client support in Microsoft 365, see the
following articles:

* link:../../enterprise/microsoft-365-client-support-conditional-access.md[Microsoft
365 Client App Support - Conditional Access]
* link:../../enterprise/microsoft-365-client-support-multi-factor-authentication.md[Microsoft
365 Client App Support - Multi-factor authentication]

=== Protecting administrator accounts

For Microsoft 365 E3 or E5 or with separate Azure AD Premium P1 or P2
licenses, you can require MFA for administrator accounts with a
manually-created Conditional Access policy. See
link:/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/howto-conditional-access-policy-admin-mfa[Conditional
Access: Require MFA for administrators] for the details.

For editions of Microsoft 365 or Office 365 that do not support
Conditional Access, you can enable
link:/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/concept-fundamentals-security-defaults[security
defaults] to require MFA for all accounts.

Here are some additional recommendations:

* Use
link:/azure/active-directory/privileged-identity-management/pim-getting-started[Azure
AD Privileged Identity Management] to reduce the number of persistent
administrative accounts.
* link:../../compliance/privileged-access-management-overview.md[Use
privileged access management] to protect your organization from breaches
that may use existing privileged admin accounts with standing access to
sensitive data or access to critical configuration settings.
* Create and use separate accounts that are assigned
link:../../admin/add-users/about-admin-roles.md[Microsoft 365
administrator roles] _only for administration_. Admins should have their
own user account for regular non-administrative use and only use an
administrative account when necessary to complete a task associated with
their role or job function.
* Follow link:/azure/active-directory/admin-roles-best-practices[best
practices] for securing privileged accounts in Azure AD.

=== Next step

link:identity-access-policies.md[image:../../media/microsoft-365-policies-configurations/identity-device-access-steps-next-step-2.png#lightbox[Step
2: Configure the common Zero Trust identity and access Conditional
Access policies.]]

link:identity-access-policies.md[Configure the common Zero Trust
identity and device access policies]
