= 
dansimp

== New domains being forwarded email insight in the Security & Compliance Center

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/mdo-trial-banner.md[MDO Trial banner]]

*Applies to* - link:exchange-online-protection-overview.md[Exchange
Online Protection] - link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender
for Office 365 plan 1 and plan 2] -
link:../defender/microsoft-365-defender.md[Microsoft 365 Defender]

There are valid business reasons to forward email messages to external
recipients in specific domains. However, itâ€™s suspicious when users in
your organization suddenly start forwarding messages to a domain where
no one in your organization has ever forwarded messages to (a new
domain).

This condition might indicate that the user accounts are compromised. If
you suspect the accounts have been compromised, see
link:responding-to-a-compromised-email-account.md[Responding to a
compromised email account].

The *New domains being forwarded email* insight in the
https://protection.office.com[Security & Compliance Center] notifies you
when users in your organization are forwarding messages to new domains.

This insight appears only when the issue is detected, and it appears on
the link:view-mail-flow-reports.md#forwarding-report[Forwarding report]
page.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-new-domains-being-forwarded.png''
alt-text=``The New domains being forwarded email insight''
lightbox=``../../media/mfi-new-domains-being-forwarded.png'':::

When you click on the widget, a flyout appears where you can find more
details about the forwarded messages, including a link back to the
link:view-mail-flow-reports.md#forwarding-report[Forwarding report].

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-new-domains-being-forwarded-details.png''
alt-text=``The Details flyout that appears after clicking on the New
domains being forwarded email insight''
lightbox=``../../media/mfi-new-domains-being-forwarded-details.png'':::

You can also get to this details page when you select the insight after
you click *View all* in the *Top insights & recommendations* area on
(*Reports* > *Dashboard* or
https://protection.office.com/insightdashboard).

To prevent automatic message forwarding to external domains, configure a
remote domain for some or all external domains. For more information,
see
link:/Exchange/mail-flow-best-practices/remote-domains/manage-remote-domains[Manage
remote domains in Exchange Online].

=== Related topics

For information about other insights in the Mail flow dashboard, see
link:mail-flow-insights-v2.md[Mail flow insights in the Security &
Compliance Center].
