= 
dansimp

== Mail flow map in the Security & Compliance Center

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/mdo-trial-banner.md[MDO Trial banner]]

*Applies to* - link:eop-about.md[Exchange Online Protection] -
link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender for Office 365 plan 1
and plan 2] - link:../defender/microsoft-365-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender]

The *Mail flow map* in the https://protection.office.com[Security &
Compliance Center] gives insight as to how mail flows through your
organization. You can use this information to learn patterns, identify
anomalies, and fix issues as they occur.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-mail-flow-map-widget.png'' alt-text=``The Mail
flow map widget in the Mail flow dashboard in the Security & Compliance
Center'' lightbox=``../../media/mfi-mail-flow-map-widget.png'':::

By default, the widget shows the mail flow pattern from the previous day
in a chart known as a _Sankey_ diagram. You can use the left arrow
image:../../media/scc-left-arrow.png[Left arrow.] and right arrow
image:../../media/scc-right-arrow.png[Right arrow] to show information
from different days. Each different color represents mail flow over a
different inbound or outbound connector (or without using connectors).
If you hover over a specific color, the number of messages is displayed
for that type of connector.

=== Report view for the Mail flow map

Clicking on the *Mail flow map* widget will take you to the *Mail flow
map* report.

The following charts are available in the report view:

* *Show data for: Overview*: This is basically a larger view of the
widget. If you hover over a specific color, the number of messages is
displayed for that type of connector.
+
:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-mail-flow-map-report-overview.png''
alt-text=``The Overview view in the Mail flow map report''
lightbox=``../../media/mfi-mail-flow-map-report-overview.png'':::
* *Show data for: Detail*: This view shows details about the connectors
and destination domains. The top sender and recipient domains are
listed, and the rest are put in *Others*. If you hover over a specific
color and section, the number of messages is displayed.
+
:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-mail-flow-map-report-detail.png''
alt-text=``The Detail view in the Mail flow map report''
lightbox=``../../media/mfi-mail-flow-map-report-detail.png'':::

If you click *Filters* in a report view, you can specify a date range
with *Start date* and *End date*.

To email the report for a specific date range to one or more recipients,
click *Request download*.

Related insights are shown beneath the Mail flow map if theyâ€™re
available (for example, the
link:/exchange/monitoring/mail-flow-insights/mfi-fix-possible-mail-loop-insight[Fix
possible mail loop insight].

=== Details table view for the Mail flow map

If you click *View details table* in a report view, the following
information is shown:

* *Date*
* *Category*
* *Connector / Third-party service provider*
* *Sender/Recipient domain*
* *Message count*

If you click *Filters* in a details table view, you can specify a date
range with *Start date* and *End date*.

If you select a row, similar details are shown in a flyout:

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-mail-flow-map-view-details-table-details.png''
alt-text=``The Details flyout from the details table in the Mail flow
map''
lightbox=``../../media/mfi-mail-flow-map-view-details-table-details.png'':::

To email the report for a specific date range to one or more recipients,
click *Request download*.

To go back to the reports view, click *View report*.

=== See also

For information about other mail flow insights, see
link:/exchange/monitoring/mail-flow-insights/mail-flow-insights[Mail
flow insights in Exchange Online].
