= 
dansimp

== Non-accepted domain report in the Security & Compliance Center

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/mdo-trial-banner.md[MDO Trial banner]]

*Applies to* - link:exchange-online-protection-overview.md[Exchange
Online Protection] - link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender
for Office 365 plan 1 and plan 2] -
link:../defender/microsoft-365-defender.md[Microsoft 365 Defender]

The *Non-accepted domain* report in the
link:mail-flow-insights-v2.md[Mail flow dashboard] in the
https://protection.office.com[Security & Compliance Center] displays
information about messages from your on-premises email organization
where the sender’s domain isn’t configured as an accepted domain in your
Microsoft 365 organization.

Microsoft 365 might throttle these messages if we have data to prove
that the intent of these messages is malicious. Therefore, it’s
important for you to understand what’s happening and to fix the issue.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-non-accepted-domain-report-widget.png''
alt-text=``The Non-accepted domain widget in the Mail flow dashboard in
the Security & Compliance Center''
lightbox=``../../media/mfi-non-accepted-domain-report-widget.png'':::

=== Report view for the Non-accepted domain report

Clicking the chart on the *Non-accepted domain* widget will take you to
the *Non-accepted domain* report.

By default, the activity for all affected connectors is shown. If you
click *Show data for*, you can select a specific connector from the
dropdown.

If you hover over a data point (day) in the chart, you’ll see the total
number of messages for the connector.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-non-accepted-domain-report-overview-view.png''
alt-text=``The Report view in the Non-accepted domain report''
lightbox=``../../media/mfi-non-accepted-domain-report-overview-view.png'':::

=== Details table view for the Non-accepted domain report

If you click *View details table* in a report view, the following
information is shown:

* *Date*
* *Inbound connector name*
* *Sender domain*
* *Message count*
* *Sample messages*: The message IDs of a sample of affected messages.

If you click *Filters* in a details table view, you can specify a date
range with *Start date* and *End date*.

To email the report for a specific date range to one or more recipients,
click *Request download*.

When you select a row in the table, a flyout appears with the following
information:

* *Date*
* *Inbound connector name*
* *Sender domain*
* *Message count*
* *Sample messages*: You can click *View sample messages* to see the
link:message-trace-scc.md[message trace] results for a sample of the
affected messages.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mfi-non-accepted-domain-report-details-flyout.png''
alt-text=``The Details flyout after selecting a row in Details table
view in the Non-accepted domain report''
lightbox=``../../media/mfi-non-accepted-domain-report-details-flyout.png'':::

To go back to the reports view, click *View report*.

=== Related topics

For information about other insights in the Mail flow dashboard, see
link:mail-flow-insights-v2.md[Mail flow insights in the Security &
Compliance Center].
