= 
chrisda

== Security recommendations for priority accounts in Microsoft 365

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/mdo-trial-banner.md[MDO Trial banner]]

*Applies to:* - link:defender-for-office-365.md[Microsoft Defender for
Office 365 plan 1 and plan 2] -
link:../defender/microsoft-365-defender.md[Microsoft 365 Defender]

Not all user accounts have access to the same company information. Some
accounts have access to sensitive information, such as financial data,
product development information, partner access to critical build
systems, and more. If compromised, accounts that have access to highly
confidential information pose a serious threat. We call these types of
accounts _priority accounts_. Priority accounts include (but aren’t
limited to) CEOs, CISOs, CFOs, infrastructure admin accounts, build
system accounts, and more.

For attackers, ordinary phishing attacks that cast a random net for
ordinary or unknown users are inefficient. On the other hand, _spear
phishing_ or _whaling_ attacks that target priority accounts are very
rewarding for attackers. So, priority accounts require stronger than
ordinary protection to help prevent account compromise.

Microsoft 365 and Microsoft Defender for Office 365 contain several key
features that provide additional layers of security for your priority
accounts. This article describes these capabilities and how to use them.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/security-recommendations-for-priority-users.png''
alt-text=``The summary of the security recommendations in icon form''
lightbox=``../../media/security-recommendations-for-priority-users.png'':::

[width="100%",cols="19%,^27%,^27%,^27%",options="header",]
|===
|Task |All Office 365 Enterprise plans |Microsoft 365 E3 |Microsoft 365
E5
|link:#increase-sign-in-security-for-priority-accounts[Increase sign-in
security for priority accounts]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included.]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included.]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included.]

|link:#use-strict-preset-security-policies-for-priority-accounts[Use
Strict preset security policies for priority accounts]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included.]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included.]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included.]

|link:#apply-user-tags-to-priority-accounts[Apply user tags to priority
accounts] | |
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included]

|link:#monitor-priority-accounts-in-alerts-reports-and-detections[Monitor
priority accounts in alerts&#44; reports&#44; and detections] | |
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included]

|link:#train-users[Train users]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included.]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included]
|image:../../media/d238e041-6854-4a78-9141-049224df0795.png[Included]
|===

____
[!NOTE] For information about securing _privileged accounts_ (admin
accounts), see link:/security/compass/critical-impact-accounts[this
topic].
____

=== Increase sign-in security for priority accounts

Priority accounts require increased sign-in security. You can increase
their sign-in security by requiring multi-factor authentication (MFA)
and disabling legacy authentication protocols.

For instructions, see
link:../../solutions/empower-people-to-work-remotely-secure-sign-in.md[Step
1. Increase sign-in security for remote workers with MFA]. Although this
article is about remote workers, the same concepts apply to priority
users.

*Note*: We strongly recommend that you globally disable legacy
authentication protocols for all priority users as described in the
previous article. If your business requirements prevent you from doing
so, Exchange Online offers the following controls to help limit the
scope of legacy authentication protocols:

* You can use
link:/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/disable-basic-authentication-in-exchange-online[authentication
policies] and
link:/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/client-access-rules/client-access-rules[Client
Access Rules] in Exchange Online to block or allow Basic authentication
and legacy authentication protocols like POP3, IMAP4, and authenticated
SMTP for specific users.
* You can disable POP3 and IMAP4 access on individual mailboxes. You can
disable authenticated SMTP at the organizational level and enable it on
specific mailboxes that still require it. For instructions, see the
following articles:
** link:/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/pop3-and-imap4/enable-or-disable-pop3-or-imap4-access[Enable
or Disable POP3 or IMAP4 access for a user]
** link:/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/authenticated-client-smtp-submission[Enable
or disable authenticated client SMTP submission (SMTP AUTH)]

It’s also worth noting that Basic authentication is in the process of
being deprecated in Exchange Online for Exchange Web Services (EWS),
Exchange ActiveSync, POP3, IMAP4, and remote PowerShell. For details,
see this
https://developer.microsoft.com/office/blogs/deferred-end-of-support-date-for-basic-authentication-in-exchange-online/[blog
post].

=== Use Strict preset security policies for priority accounts

Priority users require more stringent actions for the various
protections that are available in Exchange Online Protection (EOP) and
Defender for Office 365.

For example, instead of delivering messages that were classified as spam
to the Junk Email folder, you should quarantine those same messages if
they’re intended for priority accounts.

You can implement this stringent approach for priority accounts by using
the Strict profile in preset security policies.

Preset security policies are a convenient and central location to apply
our recommended Strict policy settings for all of the protections in EOP
and Defender for Office 365. For more information, see
link:preset-security-policies.md[Preset security policies in EOP and
Microsoft Defender for Office 365].

For details about how the Strict policy settings differ from the default
and Standard policy settings, see
link:recommended-settings-for-eop-and-office365.md[Recommended settings
for EOP and Microsoft Defender for Office 365 security].

=== Apply user tags to priority accounts

User tags in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 2 (as part of
Microsoft 365 E5 or an add-on subscription) are a way to quickly
identify and classify specific users or groups of users in reports and
incident investigations.

*Priority accounts* is a type of built-in user tag (known as a _system
tag_) that you can use to identify incidents and alerts that involve
priority accounts. For more information about *priority accounts*, see
link:../../admin/setup/priority-accounts.md[Manage and monitor priority
accounts].

You can also create custom tags to further identify and classify your
priority accounts. For more information, see
link:user-tags-about.md[User tags]. You can manage *priority accounts*
(system tags) in the same interface as custom user tags.

=== Monitor priority accounts in alerts, reports, and detections

After you secure and tag your priority users, you can use the available
reports, alerts, and investigations in EOP and Defender for Office 365
to quickly identify incidents or detections that involve priority
accounts. The features that support user tags are described in the
following table.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Feature |Description
|Alerts |The user tags of affected users are visible and available as
filters on the *Alerts* page in the Microsoft 365 Defender portal. For
more information, see
link:../../compliance/alert-policies.md#view-alerts[Viewing alerts].

|Explorer |In *Explorer* (Defender for Office 365 Plan 2) or *Real-time
detections* (Defender for Office 365 Plan 1), user tags are visible in
the Email grid view and the Email details flyout. User tags are also
available as a filterable property. For more information, see
link:threat-explorer-about.md#tags-in-threat-explorer[Tags in Explorer].

|Campaign Views |User tags are one of many filterable properties in
Campaign Views in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Plan 2. For more
information, see link:campaigns.md[Campaign Views].

|Threat protection status report |In virtually all of the views and
detail tables in the *Threat protection status report*, you can filter
the results by *priority accounts*. For more information, see
link:reports-email-security.md#threat-protection-status-report[Threat
protection status report].

|Email issues for priority accounts report |The *Email issues for
priority accounts* report in the Exchange admin center (EAC) contains
information about undelivered and delayed messages for *priority
accounts*. For more information, see
link:/exchange/monitoring/mail-flow-reports/mfr-email-issues-for-priority-accounts-report[Email
issues for priority accounts report].
|===

=== Train users

Training users with priority accounts can help save those users and your
security operations team much time and frustration. Savvy users are less
likely to open attachments or click links in questionable email
messages, and they are more likely to avoid suspicious websites.

The Harvard Kennedy School
https://www.belfercenter.org/CyberPlaybook[Cybersecurity Campaign
Handbook] provides excellent guidance for establishing a strong culture
of security awareness within your organization, including training users
to identify phishing attacks.

Microsoft 365 provides the following resources to help inform users in
your organization:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Concept |Resources |Description
|Microsoft 365 |link:/office365/customlearning/[Customizable learning
pathways] |These resources can help you put together training for users
in your organization.

|Microsoft 365 security
|link:/training/modules/security-with-microsoft-365[Learning module:
Secure your organization with built-in&#44; intelligent security from
Microsoft 365] |This module enables you to describe how Microsoft 365
security features work together and to articulate the benefits of these
security features.

|Multi-factor authentication
|link:/azure/active-directory/user-help/multi-factor-authentication-end-user-first-time[Two-step
verification: What is the additional verification page?] |This article
helps end users understand what multi-factor authentication is and why
it’s being used at your organization.

|Attack simulation training
|link:attack-simulation-training-get-started.md[Get started using Attack
simulation training] |Attack simulation training in Microsoft Defender
for Office 365 Plan 2 allows admin to configure, launch, and track
simulated phishing attacks against specific groups of users.
|===

In addition, Microsoft recommends that users take the actions described
in this article:
https://support.microsoft.com/office/066d6216-a56b-4f90-9af3-b3a1e9a327d6[Protect
your account and devices from hackers and malware]. These actions
include:

* Using strong passwords
* Protecting devices
* Enabling security features on Windows and Mac PCs (for unmanaged
devices)

=== See also

https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-defender-for-office/announcing-priority-account-protection-in-microsoft-defender-for/ba-p/1696385[Announcing
Priority Account Protection in Microsoft Defender for Office 365]
