= 
alexroland24

== Infrastructure Chaining

Infrastructure chaining leverages the relationships between highly
connected datasets to build out an investigation. This process is the
core of threat infrastructure analysis and allows organizations to
surface new connections, group similar attack activity and substantiate
assumptions during incident response.

image::media/infrastructureChaining.png[Infrastructure chaining]

=== Prerequisites

[arabic]
. Review link:data-sets.md[Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence
(Defender TI)’s Data sets overview article]
. Review link:searching-and-pivoting.md[Microsoft Defender Threat
Intelligence (Defender TI)’s Searching and pivoting how-to article]

=== All you need is a starting point…

We see attack campaigns employ a wide array of obfuscation techniques
such as simple geo filtering to complex tactics like passive OS
fingerprinting. This can potentially stop a point in time investigation
in its tracks. The screenshot above highlights the concept of
infrastructure chaining. With our data enrichment capability, we could
start with a piece of malware that attempts to connect to an IP address
(possibly a C2). That IP address may have hosted an SSL cert that has a
common name such as a domain name. That domain may be connected to a
page that contains a unique tracker in the code, such as a NewRelicID or
some other analytic ID we may have observed elsewhere. Or, perhaps the
domain may have historically been connected to other infrastructure that
may shed light on our investigation. The main takeaway is that one data
point taken out of context may not be especially useful but when we
observe the natural connection to all this other technical data, we can
start to stitch together a story.

=== An adversary’s outside-In perspective

An adversary’s outside-in perspective enables them to take advantage of
your continually expanding web and mobile presence that operates outside
of your firewall.

Approaching and interacting with the web and mobile properties as a real
user enables Microsoft’s crawling, scanning, and machine-learning
technology to disarm adversaries’ evasion techniques by collecting user
session data, detecting phishing, malware, rogue apps, unwanted content,
and domain infringement at scale. This helps deliver actionable,
event-based threat alerts and workflows in the form of
link:index.md[threat intelligence], link:using-tags.md[system tags],
link:analyst-insights.md[analyst insights], and
link:reputation-scoring.md[reputation scores] associated with
adversaries’ infrastructure.

As more threat data becomes available, more tools, education, and effort
are required for analysts to understand the data sets and their
corresponding threats. Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence (Defender
TI) unifies these efforts by providing a single view into multiple data
sources.

=== Next steps

For more information, see
link:gathering-threat-intelligence-and-infrastructure-chaining.md[Tutorial:
Gathering threat intelligence and infrastructure chaining].
