= 
chuckedmonson

== Overview of structured document processing in Microsoft Syntex

____
[!NOTE] _Structured document processing_ was known as _form processing_
in previous releases.
____

Use the structured document processing model
(link:create-syntex-model.md#train-a-custom-model[layout method]) to
automatically identify field and table values. It works best for
structured or semi-structured documents, such as forms and invoices.

Microsoft Syntex uses Microsoft Power Apps
link:/ai-builder/form-processing-model-overview[AI Builder] document
processing (formerly known as form processing) to create structured
document processing models within SharePoint document libraries. You can
use AI Builder document processing to create structured document
processing models that use machine learning technology to identify and
extract key-value pairs and table data from structured or
semi-structured documents, such as forms and invoices.

Organizations often receive invoices in large quantities from various
sources, such as mail, fax, and email. Processing these documents and
manually entering them into a database can take a considerable amount of
time. By using AI to extract the text, key-value pairs, and tables from
your documents, Syntex automates this process.

____
[!NOTE] For more ideas about how to use these models in your
organization, see link:adoption-getstarted.md[Get started driving
adoption] and link:adoption-scenarios.md[Scenarios and use cases].
____

For example, you can create a structured document processing model that
identifies all documents that are uploaded to the document library. From
each document, you can then extract and display specific data that is
important to you.

image::../media/content-understanding/doc-lib-done.png[Screenshot
showing the document library view.]

You use example files to train your model and define the information to
be extracted from your form. The layout of your document is learned by
training your model. You only need five form documents to get started.
Syntex will analyze your example files for key-value pairs, and you can
also manually identify ones that might not have been detected. AI
builder lets you test the accuracy of your model on your example files.

You can only create a structured document processing model in SharePoint
document libraries for which it’s enabled. If it has been enabled,
you’re able to see the *Classify and extract* option in your document
library.

image::../media/content-understanding/create-ai-builder-model2.png[Screenshot
showing the AI Builder model.]

If you need it enabled on your document library, contact your Microsoft
365 admin.

=== Requirements

For information about requirements to consider when choosing this model,
see
link:requirements-and-limitations.md#structured-document-processing[Requirements
and limitations for models in Microsoft Syntex].

=== See also

link:difference-between-document-understanding-and-form-processing-model.md[Compare
custom models]

link:create-a-form-processing-model.md[Train a structured document
processing model]

link:/power-automate/[Power Automate documentation]

link:/training/paths/improve-business-performance-ai-builder/?source=learn[Training:
Improve business performance with AI Builder]
