= 
chuckedmonson

== Leverage term store taxonomy when creating an extractor in Microsoft Syntex

*Applies to:*   ✓ Unstructured document processing

When you create an extractor in your unstructured document processing
model using Microsoft Syntex, you can take advantage of global term sets
in the link:/sharepoint/managed-metadata[term store] to display
preferred terms for data that you extract.

As an example, your model identifies and classifies all *Contract*
documents that are uploaded to the document library. Additionally, the
model also extracts a *Contract Service* value from each contract, and
will display it in a column in your library view. Among the various
Contract Services values in the contracts, there are several older
values that your company no longer uses and have been renamed. For
example, all references to the terms _Design_, _Graphics_, or
_Topography_ contract services should now be called _Creative_. Whenever
your model extracts one of the outdated terms from a contract document,
you want it to display the current term—_Creative_—in your library view.
In the following example, while training the model we see that one
sample document contains the outdated term of _Design_.

image:../media/content-understanding/design.png[Term store.]

=== Use a managed metadata column in your extractor

Term sets are configured in the Managed Metadata services (MMS) term
store in the SharePoint admin center. In the example below, the
_Contract Services_ link:/sharepoint/managed-metadata#term-set[term set]
is configured to include several terms, including _Creative_. The
details for it show that the term has three synonyms (_Design_,
_Graphics_, and _Topography_) and the synonyms should be translated to
_Creative_.

image:../media/content-understanding/term-store.png[Term set.]

There could be many reasons why you might want to use a synonym in your
term set. For example, there could be outdated terms, renamed terms, or
variations between your organizations departments on naming.

To make the managed metadata field available to select when you create
your extractor in your model, you need to
https://support.microsoft.com/office/8fad9e35-a618-4400-b3c7-46f02785d27f[add
it as a managed-metadata site column]. After you add the site column,
you can select it when you create the extractor for your model.

image:../media/content-understanding/contract-services.png[Contract
service.]

After applying your model to the document library, when documents are
uploaded to library, the _Creative Services_ column will display the
preferred term (_Creative_) when the extractor finds any of the synonym
values (_Design_, _Graphics_, and _Topography_).

image:../media/content-understanding/creative.png[Contract service
column.]

____
[!NOTE] If the term set is open, then any extracted values that do not
match a preferred term or synonym value will be added as a new term to
the root of the term set. These new terms can be moved, merged, or made
synonyms in the term store where the term set resides.
____

=== See also

link:/sharepoint/managed-metadata#terms[Introduction to managed
metadata]

link:create-an-extractor.md[Create an extractor]

https://support.microsoft.com/office/create-a-managed-metadata-column-8fad9e35-a618-4400-b3c7-46f02785d27f?redirectSourcePath=%252farticle%252fc2a06717-8105-4aea-890d-3082853ab7b7&ui=en-US&rs=en-US&ad=US[Create
a managed metadata column]
