= 
chuckedmonson

== Overview of prebuilt models in Microsoft Syntex

In addition to link:model-types-overview.md#custom-models[custom
models], Microsoft Syntex provides _prebuilt models_ to automate the
extraction of information.

Prebuilt models are preconfigured to recognize documents and the
structured information in the documents. Instead of having to create a
new custom model from scratch, you can iterate on an existing pretrained
model to add specific fields that fit the needs of your organization.

Prebuilt models use optical character recognition (OCR) combined with
deep learning models to identify and extract predefined text and data
fields common to specific document types. You start by analyzing one of
your files against the prebuilt model. You then select the detected
fields that make sense for your purpose. If the model doesnâ€™t detect the
fields that you need, you can analyze again by using a different file.

Like other models, prebuilt models are created and managed in the
link:create-a-content-center.md[content center]. When applied to a
SharePoint document library, the model is associated with a content type
and has columns to store the information being extracted.

After publishing your model, use the content center to apply it to any
SharePoint document library that you have access to.

=== Available prebuilt models

Currently, there are two prebuilt models available:
link:prebuilt-model-invoice.md[invoices] and
link:prebuilt-model-receipt.md[receipts].

* The _invoices model_ analyzes and extracts key information from sales
invoices. The API analyzes invoices in various formats and
link:/azure/applied-ai-services/form-recognizer/concept-invoice#field-extraction[extracts
key invoice information] such as customer name, billing address, due
date, and amount due.
* The _receipts model_ analyzes and extracts key information from sales
receipts. The API analyzes printed and handwritten receipts and
link:/azure/applied-ai-services/form-recognizer/concept-receipt#field-extraction[extracts
key receipt information] such as merchant name, merchant phone number,
transaction date, tax, and transaction total.

Additional prebuilt models will be available in future releases.

=== Requirements

For information about requirements to consider when choosing this model,
see link:requirements-and-limitations.md[Requirements and limitations
for models in Microsoft Syntex].

=== See also

link:prebuilt-model-invoice.md[Use a prebuilt model to extract
information from invoices]

link:prebuilt-model-receipt.md[Use a prebuilt model to extract
information from receipts]
