= 
chuckedmonson

== Requirements and limitations for models in Microsoft Syntex

*Applies to:*   ✓ All custom models   |   ✓ All prebuilt models

Microsoft Syntex lets you create link:model-types-overview.md[custom
models and prebuilt models]. Depending on the type of model you choose,
there might be different requirements, such as file type and size,
languages that need to be supported, geographical considerations, and
other factors that will help you decide which type of model to use.

Custom models:

* link:#unstructured-document-processing[Unstructured document
processing]
* link:#freeform-document-processing[Freeform document processing]
* link:#structured-document-processing[Structured document processing]

Prebuilt models:

* link:#invoice-processing[Invoice processing]
* link:#receipt-processing[Receipt processing]

=== Custom models

==== Unstructured document processing

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Icon |Description
|image:/office/media/icons/files-blue.png[Files symbol.] |*Supported
file types* This model supports the following file types: .csv, .doc,
.docx, .eml, .heic, .heif, .htm, .html, .jpeg, .jpg, .md, .msg, .pdf,
.png, .ppt, .pptx, .rtf, .tif, .tiff, .txt, .xls, and .xlsx.

|image:/office/media/icons/chat-room-conversation-blue.png[Conversation
symbol.] |*Supported languages* This model supports all of the
Latin-based languages, including: English, French, German, Italian, and
Spanish.

|image:/office/media/icons/paragraph-writing-blue.png[Paragraph symbol.]
|*OCR considerations* This model uses optical character recognition
(OCR) technology to scan .pdf files, image files, and .tiff files. OCR
processing works best on documents that meet the following requirements:
- File format of .jpg, .png, or .pdf (text or scanned). Text-embedded
.pdf files are better, because there won’t be any errors in character
extraction and location. - If your .pdf files are password-locked, you
must remove the lock before submitting them. - The combined file size of
the documents used for training per collection must not exceed 50 MB,
and PDF documents shouldn’t have more than 500 pages. - For images,
dimensions must be between 50 x 50 and 10,000 x 10,000 pixels. Images
that are very wide or have odd dimensions (for example, floor plans)
might get truncated in the OCR process and lose accuracy. - For .pdf
files, dimensions must be at most 17 x 17 inches, corresponding to Legal
or A3 paper sizes and smaller. - If scanned from paper documents, scans
should be high-quality images. - Must use the Latin alphabet (English
characters). Note the following differences about Microsoft Office
text-based files and OCR-scanned files (.pdf, image, or .tiff): - Office
files: Truncated at 64,000 characters (in training and when run against
files in a document library). - OCR-scanned files: There’s a 500-page
limit. Only PDF and image file types are processed by OCR.

|image:/office/media/icons/globe-internet.png[Globe symbol.] |*Multi-Geo
environments* When setting up Syntex in a
link:/microsoft-365/enterprise/microsoft-365-multi-geo[Microsoft 365
Multi-Geo] environment, you can only configure it to use the model type
in the central location. If you want to use this model type in a
satellite location, contact Microsoft support.

|image:/office/media/icons/objects-blue.png[Objects symbol.]
|*Multi-model libraries* If two or more trained models are applied to
the same library, the file is classified using the model that has the
highest average confidence score. The extracted entities will be from
the applied model only.
|===

==== Freeform document processing

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Icon |Description
|image:/office/media/icons/files-blue.png[Files symbol.] |*Supported
file types* This model supports the following file types: see
link:/ai-builder/form-processing-model-requirements#requirements[file
type requirements].

|image:/office/media/icons/chat-room-conversation-blue.png[Conversation
symbol.] |*Supported languages* This model supports the following
language: English.

|image:/office/media/icons/paragraph-writing-blue.png[Paragraph symbol.]
|*OCR considerations* This model uses optical character recognition
(OCR) technology to scan .pdf files, image files, and .tiff files. OCR
processing works best on documents that meet
link:/ai-builder/form-processing-model-requirements#requirements[these
requirements].

|image:/office/media/icons/bandwidth-efficiency-blue.png[Bandwidth/efficiency
symbol.] |*Optimization tips* If your model isn’t performing as you want
it to, try link:/ai-builder/improve-form-processing-performance[these
steps to improve the performance of your model].

|image:/office/media/icons/globe-internet.png[Globe symbol.] |*Multi-Geo
environments* When setting up Syntex in a
link:/microsoft-365/enterprise/microsoft-365-multi-geo[Microsoft 365
Multi-Geo] environment, you can only configure it to use the model type
in the central location. If you want to use this model type in a
satellite location, contact Microsoft support.

|image:/office/media/icons/blocks-blue.png[Blocks symbol.] |*Custom
Power Platform environments* If you use a custom environment (rather
than the default environment) for Power Platform processing, there are
additional setup requirements. For more information, see
link:/microsoft-365/contentunderstanding/set-up-content-understanding#custom-power-platform-environments[Custom
Power Platform environments].

|image:/office/media/icons/objects-blue.png[Objects symbol.]
|*Multi-model libraries* If two or more trained models are applied to
the same library, the file is classified using the model that has the
highest average confidence score. The extracted entities will be from
the applied model only. You can have only one freeform or one structured
model per library.
|===

==== Structured document processing

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Icon |Description
|image:/office/media/icons/files-blue.png[Files symbol.] |*Supported
file types* This model supports the following file types: see
link:/ai-builder/form-processing-model-requirements#requirements[file
type requirements].

|image:/office/media/icons/chat-room-conversation-blue.png[Conversation
symbol.] |*Supported languages* This model supports 73 languages: see
link:/ai-builder/form-processing-model-requirements#languages-supported[supported
languages].

|image:/office/media/icons/paragraph-writing-blue.png[Paragraph symbol.]
|*OCR considerations* This model uses optical character recognition
(OCR) technology to scan .pdf files, image files, and .tiff files. OCR
processing works best on documents that meet
link:/ai-builder/form-processing-model-requirements#requirements[these
requirements].

|image:/office/media/icons/bandwidth-efficiency-blue.png[Bandwidth/efficiency
symbol.] |*Optimization tips* If your model isn’t performing as you want
it to, try link:/ai-builder/improve-form-processing-performance[these
steps to improve the performance of your model].

|image:/office/media/icons/globe-internet.png[Globe symbol.] |*Multi-Geo
environments* When setting up Syntex in a
link:/microsoft-365/enterprise/microsoft-365-multi-geo[Microsoft 365
Multi-Geo] environment, you can only configure it to use the model type
in the central location. If you want to use this model type in a
satellite location, contact Microsoft support.

|image:/office/media/icons/blocks-blue.png[Blocks symbol.] |*Custom
Power Platform environments* If you use a custom environment (rather
than the default environment) for Power Platform processing, there are
additional setup requirements. For more information, see
link:/microsoft-365/contentunderstanding/set-up-content-understanding#custom-power-platform-environments[Custom
Power Platform environments].

|image:/office/media/icons/objects-blue.png[Objects symbol.]
|*Multi-model libraries* If two or more trained models are applied to
the same library, the file is classified using the model that has the
highest average confidence score. The extracted entities will be from
the applied model only. You can have only one freeform or one structured
model per library.
|===

=== Prebuilt models

==== Invoice processing

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Icon |Description
|image:/office/media/icons/files-blue.png[Files symbol.] |*Supported
file types* This model supports the following file types: .bmp, .jpeg,
.pdf, .png, and .tiff.

|image:/office/media/icons/chat-room-conversation-blue.png[Conversation
symbol.] |*Supported languages* This model supports only English
language invoices from the United States.

|image:/office/media/icons/paragraph-writing-blue.png[Paragraph symbol.]
|*OCR considerations* This model uses optical character recognition
(OCR) technology to scan .pdf files, image files, and .tiff files. OCR
processing works best on documents that meet the following requirements:
- File format of .jpg, .png, or .pdf (text or scanned). Text-embedded
.pdf files are better, because there won’t be any errors in character
extraction and location. - For .pdf and .tiff files, up to 2,000 pages
can be processed. - The file size must be less than 50 MB. - For images,
dimensions must be between 50 x 50 and 10,000 x 10,000 pixels. - For
.pdf files, dimensions must be at most 17 x 17 inches, corresponding to
Legal or A3 paper sizes and smaller. - The total size of the training
data is 500 pages or less. Note the following differences about
Microsoft Office text-based files and OCR-scanned files (.pdf, image, or
.tiff): - Office files: Truncated at 64,000 characters (in training and
when run against files in a document library). - OCR-scanned files:
There’s a 20-page limit.

|image:/office/media/icons/globe-internet.png[Globe symbol.] |*Multi-Geo
environments* When setting up Syntex in a
link:/microsoft-365/enterprise/microsoft-365-multi-geo[Microsoft 365
Multi-Geo] environment, you can only configure it to use the model type
in the central location. If you want to use this model type in a
satellite location, contact Microsoft support.

|image:/office/media/icons/objects-blue.png[Objects symbol.]
|*Multi-model libraries* If two or more trained models are applied to
the same library, the file is classified using the model that has the
highest average confidence score. The extracted entities will be from
the applied model only.
|===

==== Receipt processing

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|===
|Icon |Description
|image:/office/media/icons/files-blue.png[Files symbol.] |*Supported
file types* This model supports the following file types: .bmp, .jpeg,
.pdf, .png, and .tiff.

|image:/office/media/icons/chat-room-conversation-blue.png[Conversation
symbol.] |*Supported languages* This model supports English sales
receipts from Australia, Canada, Great Britain, India, and the United
States.

|image:/office/media/icons/paragraph-writing-blue.png[Paragraph symbol.]
|*OCR considerations* This model uses optical character recognition
(OCR) technology to scan .pdf files, image files, and .tiff files. OCR
processing works best on documents that meet the following requirements:
- File format of .jpg, .png, or .pdf (text or scanned). Text-embedded
.pdf files are better, because there won’t be any errors in character
extraction and location. - For .pdf and .tiff files, up to 2,000 pages
can be processed. - The file size must be less than 50 MB. - For images,
dimensions must be between 50 x 50 and 10,000 x 10,000 pixels. - For
.pdf files, dimensions must be at most 17 x 17 inches, corresponding to
Legal or A3 paper sizes and smaller. - The total size of the training
data is 500 pages or less. Note the following differences about
Microsoft Office text-based files and OCR-scanned files (.pdf, image, or
.tiff): - Office files: Truncated at 64,000 characters (in training and
when run against files in a document library). - OCR-scanned files:
There’s a 20-page limit.

|image:/office/media/icons/globe-internet.png[Globe symbol.] |*Multi-Geo
environments* When setting up Syntex in a
link:/microsoft-365/enterprise/microsoft-365-multi-geo[Microsoft 365
Multi-Geo] environment, you can only configure it to use the model type
in the central location. If you want to use this model type in a
satellite location, contact Microsoft support.

|image:/office/media/icons/objects-blue.png[Objects symbol.]
|*Multi-model libraries* If two or more trained models are applied to
the same library, the file is classified using the model that has the
highest average confidence score. The extracted entities will be from
the applied model only.
|===
