= 
johnddeweese

== Manage data for Microsoft Whiteboard in GCC High environments

____
[!NOTE] This guidance applies to US Government Community Cloud (GCC)
High environments.
____

Data is stored as .whiteboard files in OneDrive for Business. An average
whiteboard might be anywhere from 50 KB to 1 MB in size and located
wherever your OneDrive for Business content resides. To check where new
data is created, see
link:/microsoft-365/enterprise/o365-data-locations[Where your Microsoft
365 customer data is stored]. Look at the location for OneDrive for
Business. All properties that apply to general files in OneDrive for
Business also apply to Whiteboard, except for external sharing.

In order to manage data, you must first ensure that Whiteboard is
enabled for your organization. For more information, see
link:manage-whiteboard-access-gcc-high.md[Manage access to Whiteboard in
GCC High environments].

You can manage Whiteboard data using existing OneDrive for Business
controls. For more information, see
link:/onedrive/plan-onedrive-enterprise[OneDrive guide for enterprises].

You can use existing OneDrive for Business tooling to satisfy data
subject requests (DSRs) for General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Whiteboard files can be moved in the same way as other content in
OneDrive for Business. However, share links and permissions might not
move.

=== Data controls supported

The following data controls are currently supported in Whiteboard:

* Retention policies
* Quota
* DLP
* eDiscovery
* Legal hold

=== Data controls planned

The following data controls are planned for future releases of
Whiteboard:

* Sensitivity labels
* Auditing
* Analytics
* Storing whiteboards in SharePoint sites

=== See also

link:manage-whiteboard-access-gcc-high.md[Manage access to Whiteboard -
GCC High]

link:manage-sharing-gcc-high.md[Manage sharing for Whiteboard - GCC
High]

link:manage-clients-gcc-high.md[Manage clients for Whiteboard - GCC
High]
