= 
schmurky
:keywords: advanced hunting, threat hunting, cyber threat hunting,
Microsoft 365 Defender, microsoft 365, m365, search, query, telemetry,
schema reference, kusto, table, column, data type,
processcreationevents, DeviceProcessEvents, process id, command line,
DeviceProcessEvents

== DeviceProcessEvents

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* - Microsoft 365 Defender - Microsoft Defender for Endpoint

The `DeviceProcessEvents` table in the
link:advanced-hunting-overview.md[advanced hunting] schema contains
information about process creation and related events. Use this
reference to construct queries that return information from this table.

____
[!TIP] For detailed information about the events types (`ActionType`
values) supported by a table, use the built-in schema reference
available in the Defender for Cloud.
____

For information on other tables in the advanced hunting schema,
link:advanced-hunting-schema-tables.md[see the advanced hunting
reference].

[width="100%",cols="36%,29%,35%",options="header",]
|===
|Column name |Data type |Description
|`Timestamp` |`datetime` |Date and time when the event was recorded

|`DeviceId` |`string` |Unique identifier for the machine in the service

|`DeviceName` |`string` |Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the
machine

|`ActionType` |`string` |Type of activity that triggered the event. See
the
link:advanced-hunting-schema-tables.md?#get-schema-information-in-the-security-center[in-portal
schema reference] for details

|`FileName` |`string` |Name of the file that the recorded action was
applied to

|`FolderPath` |`string` |Folder containing the file that the recorded
action was applied to

|`SHA1` |`string` |SHA-1 of the file that the recorded action was
applied to

|`SHA256` |`string` |SHA-256 of the file that the recorded action was
applied to. This field is usually not populated — use the SHA1 column
when available.

|`MD5` |`string` |MD5 hash of the file that the recorded action was
applied to

|`FileSize` |`long` |Size of the file in bytes

|`ProcessVersionInfoCompanyName` |`string` |Company name from the
version information of the newly created process

|`ProcessVersionInfoProductName` |`string` |Product name from the
version information of the newly created process

|`ProcessVersionInfoProductVersion` |`string` |Product version from the
version information of the newly created process

|`ProcessVersionInfoInternalFileName` |`string` |Internal file name from
the version information of the newly created process

|`ProcessVersionInfoOriginalFileName` |`string` |Original file name from
the version information of the newly created process

|`ProcessVersionInfoFileDescription` |`string` |Description from the
version information of the newly created process

|`ProcessId` |`int` |Process ID (PID) of the newly created process

|`ProcessCommandLine` |`string` |Command line used to create the new
process

|`ProcessIntegrityLevel` |`string` |Integrity level of the newly created
process. Windows assigns integrity levels to processes based on certain
characteristics, such as if they were launched from an internet
downloaded. These integrity levels influence permissions to resources

|`ProcessTokenElevation` |`string` |Indicates the type of token
elevation applied to the newly created process. Possible values:
TokenElevationTypeLimited (restricted), TokenElevationTypeDefault
(standard), and TokenElevationTypeFull (elevated)

|`ProcessCreationTime` |`datetime` |Date and time the process was
created

|`AccountDomain` |`string` |Domain of the account

|`AccountName` |`string` |User name of the account

|`AccountSid` |`string` |Security Identifier (SID) of the account

|`AccountUpn` |`string` |User principal name (UPN) of the account

|`AccountObjectId` |`string` |Unique identifier for the account in Azure
AD

|`LogonId` |`string` |Identifier for a logon session. This identifier is
unique on the same machine only between restarts

|`InitiatingProcessAccountDomain` |`string` |Domain of the account that
ran the process responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessAccountName` |`string` |User name of the account that
ran the process responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessAccountSid` |`string` |Security Identifier (SID) of
the account that ran the process responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessAccountUpn` |`string` |User principal name (UPN) of
the account that ran the process responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessAccountObjectId` |`string` |Azure AD object ID of the
user account that ran the process responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessLogonId` |`string` |Identifier for a logon session of
the process that initiated the event. This identifier is unique on the
same machine only between restarts.

|`InitiatingProcessIntegrityLevel` |`string` |Integrity level of the
process that initiated the event. Windows assigns integrity levels to
processes based on certain characteristics, such as if they were
launched from an internet download. These integrity levels influence
permissions to resources

|`InitiatingProcessTokenElevation` |`string` |Token type indicating the
presence or absence of User Access Control (UAC) privilege elevation
applied to the process that initiated the event

|`InitiatingProcessSHA1` |`string` |SHA-1 of the process (image file)
that initiated the event

|`InitiatingProcessSHA256` |`string` |SHA-256 of the process (image
file) that initiated the event. This field is usually not populated —
use the SHA1 column when available.

|`InitiatingProcessMD5` |`string` |MD5 hash of the process (image file)
that initiated the event

|`InitiatingProcessFileName` |`string` |Name of the process that
initiated the event

|`InitiatingProcessFileSize` |`long` |Size of the file that ran the
process responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessVersionInfoCompanyName` |`string` |Company name from
the version information of the process (image file) responsible for the
event

|`InitiatingProcessVersionInfoProductName` |`string` |Product name from
the version information of the process (image file) responsible for the
event

|`InitiatingProcessVersionInfoProductVersion` |`string` |Product version
from the version information of the process (image file) responsible for
the event

|`InitiatingProcessVersionInfoInternalFileName` |`string` |Internal file
name from the version information of the process (image file)
responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessVersionInfoOriginalFileName` |`string` |Original file
name from the version information of the process (image file)
responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessVersionInfoFileDescription` |`string` |Description
from the version information of the process (image file) responsible for
the event

|`InitiatingProcessId` |`int` |Process ID (PID) of the process that
initiated the event

|`InitiatingProcessCommandLine` |`string` |Command line used to run the
process that initiated the event

|`InitiatingProcessCreationTime` |`datetime` |Date and time when the
process that initiated the event was started

|`InitiatingProcessFolderPath` |`string` |Folder containing the process
(image file) that initiated the event

|`InitiatingProcessParentId` |`int` |Process ID (PID) of the parent
process that spawned the process responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessParentFileName` |`string` |Name of the parent process
that spawned the process responsible for the event

|`InitiatingProcessParentCreationTime` |`datetime` |Date and time when
the parent of the process responsible for the event was started

|`InitiatingProcessSignerType` |`string` |Type of file signer of the
process (image file) that initiated the event

|`InitiatingProcessSignatureStatus` |`string` |Information about the
signature status of the process (image file) that initiated the event

|`ReportId` |`long` |Event identifier based on a repeating counter. To
identify unique events, this column must be used in conjunction with the
DeviceName and Timestamp columns

|`AppGuardContainerId` |`string` |Identifier for the virtualized
container used by Application Guard to isolate browser activity

|`AdditionalFields` |`string` |Additional information about the event in
JSON array format
|===

=== Related topics

* link:advanced-hunting-overview.md[Advanced hunting overview]
* link:advanced-hunting-query-language.md[Learn the query language]
* link:advanced-hunting-shared-queries.md[Use shared queries]
* link:advanced-hunting-query-emails-devices.md[Hunt across devices&#44;
emails&#44; apps&#44; and identities]
* link:advanced-hunting-schema-tables.md[Understand the schema]
* link:advanced-hunting-best-practices.md[Apply query best practices]
