= 
schmurky
:keywords: guided mode, advanced hunting, threat hunting, cyber threat
hunting, Microsoft 365 Defender, microsoft 365, m365, search, query,
telemetry, custom detections, schema, kusto

== Choose between guided and advanced modes to hunt in Microsoft 365 Defender

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* - Microsoft 365 Defender

You can find the *advanced hunting* page by going to the left navigation
bar in Microsoft 365 Defender and selecting *Hunting* > *Advanced
hunting*. If the navigation bar is collapsed, select the hunting icon
image:../../media/guided-hunting/hunting-icon.png[hunting icon].

In the *advanced hunting* page, two modes are supported: - *Guided mode*
– to query using the query builder - *Advanced mode* – to query using
the query editor using Kusto Query Language (KQL)

The main difference between the two modes is that the guided mode _does
not_ require the hunter to know KQL to query the database, while
advanced mode requires KQL knowledge.

Guided mode features a query builder that has an easy-to-use, visual,
building-block style of constructing queries through dropdown menus
containing available filters and conditions. To use guided mode, see
link:advanced-hunting-modes.md#get-started-with-guided-hunting-mode[Get
started with guided hunting mode].

Advanced mode features a query editor area where users can create
queries from scratch. To use advanced mode, see
link:advanced-hunting-modes.md#get-started-with-advanced-hunting-mode[Get
started with advanced hunting mode].

=== Get started with guided hunting mode

____
[!IMPORTANT] Some information relates to prereleased product which may
be substantially modified before it’s commercially released. Microsoft
makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information
provided here.
____

When you open the advanced hunting page for the first time after guided
hunting is made available to you, you are invited to take the tour to
learn more about the different parts of the page like the tabs and query
areas.

To take the tour, select *Take tour* when this banner appears:

link:../../media/guided-hunting/1-guided-hunting-banner.png#lightbox[image:../../media/guided-hunting/1-guided-hunting-banner-tb.png[banner
inviting user to take the tour]]

Follow the blue teaching bubbles that appear throughout the page and
select *Next* to move from one step to the next.

You can take the tour again at any time by going to *Help resources* >
*Learn more* and selecting *Take the tour*.

image::../../media/guided-hunting/help-resources.png[Screenshot of help
resources]

You can then start building your query to hunt for threats. The
following articles can help you get the most out of hunting in guided
mode:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Learning goal |Description |Resource
|*Craft your first query* |Learn the basics of the query builder like
specifying the data domain and adding conditions and filters to help you
create a meaningful query. Learn further by running sample queries.
|link:advanced-hunting-query-builder.md[Build hunting queries using
guided mode]

|*Learn the different query builder capabilities* |Get to know the
different supported data types and guided mode capabilities to help you
fine-tune your query according to your needs.
|link:advanced-hunting-query-builder-details.md[Refine your query in
guided mode]

|*Learn what you can do with query results* |Get familiar with the
Results view and what you can do with generated results like how to take
action on them or link them to an incident. |-
link:advanced-hunting-query-builder-results.md[Work with query results
in guided mode] - link:advanced-hunting-take-action.md[Take action on
query results] - link:advanced-hunting-link-to-incident.md[Link query
results to an incident]

|*Create custom detection rules* |Understand how you can use advanced
hunting queries to trigger alerts and take response actions
automatically. |- link:custom-detections-overview.md[Custom detections
overview] - link:custom-detection-rules.md[Custom detection rules]
|===

=== Get started with advanced hunting mode

We recommend going through these steps to quickly get started with
advanced hunting:

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Learning goal |Description |Resource
|*Learn the language* |Advanced hunting is based on
link:/azure/kusto/query/[Kusto query language], supporting the same
syntax and operators. Start learning the query language by running your
first query. |link:advanced-hunting-query-language.md[Query language
overview]

|*Learn how to use the query results* |Learn about charts and various
ways you can view or export your results. Explore how you can quickly
tweak queries, drill down to get richer information, and take response
actions. |- link:advanced-hunting-query-results.md[Work with query
results in advanced mode] - link:advanced-hunting-take-action.md[Take
action on query results] -
link:advanced-hunting-link-to-incident.md[Link query results to an
incident]

|*Understand the schema* |Get a good, high-level understanding of the
tables in the schema and their columns. Learn where to look for data
when constructing your queries. |-
link:advanced-hunting-schema-tables.md[Schema reference] -
link:advanced-hunting-migrate-from-mde.md[Transition from Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint]

|*Get expert tips and examples* |Train for free with guides from
Microsoft experts. Explore collections of predefined queries covering
different threat hunting scenarios. |-
link:advanced-hunting-expert-training.md[Get expert training] -
link:advanced-hunting-shared-queries.md[Use shared queries] -
link:advanced-hunting-go-hunt.md[Go hunt] -
link:advanced-hunting-query-emails-devices.md[Hunt for threats across
devices&#44; emails&#44; apps&#44; and identities]

|*Optimize queries and handle errors* |Understand how to create
efficient and error-free queries. |-
link:advanced-hunting-best-practices.md[Query best practices]-
link:advanced-hunting-errors.md[Handle errors]

|*Create custom detection rules* |Understand how you can use advanced
hunting queries to trigger alerts and take response actions
automatically. |- link:custom-detections-overview.md[Custom detections
overview] - link:custom-detection-rules.md[Custom detection rules]
|===

=== See also

* link:advanced-hunting-schema-tables.md[Understand the schema]
* link:advanced-hunting-query-builder.md[Build hunting queries using
guided mode]
* link:advanced-hunting-query-language.md[Learn the query language]
