= 
schmurky
:keywords: advanced hunting, threat hunting, cyber threat hunting,
Microsoft 365 Defender, microsoft 365, m365, search, query, telemetry,
schema, kusto, CPU limit, query limit, resources, maximum results,
quota, parameters, allocation

== Use the advanced hunting query resource report

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* - Microsoft 365 Defender

____
[!IMPORTANT] Some information relates to prereleased product which may
be substantially modified before it’s commercially released. Microsoft
makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information
provided here.
____

=== Understand advanced hunting quotas and usage parameters

To keep the service performant and responsive, advanced hunting sets
various quotas and usage parameters (also known as ``service limits'').
These quotas and parameters apply separately to queries run manually and
to queries run using link:custom-detection-rules.md[custom detection
rules]. Customers who run multiple queries regularly should be mindful
of these limits and link:advanced-hunting-best-practices.md[apply
optimization best practices] to minimize disruptions.

Refer to the following table to understand existing quotas and usage
parameters.

[width="100%",cols="25%,25%,25%,25%",options="header",]
|===
|Quota or parameter |Size |Refresh cycle |Description
|Data range |30 days |Every query |Each query can look up data from up
to the past 30 days.

|Result set |10,000 rows |Every query |Each query can return up to
10,000 records.

|Timeout |10 minutes |Every query |Each query can run for up to 10
minutes. If it does not complete within 10 minutes, the service displays
an error.

|CPU resources |Based on tenant size |Every 15 minutes |The
link:advanced-hunting-errors.md[portal displays an error] whenever a
query runs and the tenant has consumed over 10% of allocated resources.
Queries are blocked if the tenant has reached 100% until after the next
15-minute cycle.
|===

____
{empty}[!NOTE] A separate set of quotas and parameters apply to advanced
hunting queries performed through the API.
link:./api-advanced-hunting.md[Read about advanced hunting APIs]
____

=== View query resources report to find inefficient queries

The query resources report shows your organization’s consumption of CPU
resources for hunting based on queries that ran in the last 30 days
using any of the hunting interfaces. This report is useful in
identifying the most resource-intensive queries and understanding how to
prevent throttling due to excessive use.

==== Access the query resources report

The report can be accessed in two ways: - In the advanced hunting page,
select *Query resources report*:

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/ah-query-resources/view-query-resources
report.png'' alt-text=``view the query resources report button in the AH
portal'' lightbox=``../../media/ah-query-resources/view-query-resources
report.png''::: - Within the *Reports* page, find the new report entry
in the *General* section

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/ah-query-resources/reports-general-query-resources.png''
alt-text=``view the query resources report in the Reports section''
lightbox=``../../media/ah-query-resources/reports-general-query-resources.png'':::

All users can access the reports, however, only the AAD global admin,
AAD security admin, and AAD security reader roles can see queries done
by all users in all interfaces. Any other user can only see: - Queries
they ran via the portal - Public API queries they ran themselves and not
through the application - Custom detections they created

==== Query resource report contents

By default, the report table displays queries from the last day, and is
sorted by Resource usage, to help you easily identify which queries
consumed the highest amount of CPU resources.

The query resources report contains all queries that ran, including
detailed resource information per query: - *Time* – when the query was
run - *Interface* – whether the query ran in the portal, in custom
detections, or via API query - *User/App* – the user or app that ran the
query - *Resource usage* – an indicator of the amount of CPU resources a
query consumed (can be Low, Medium, or High, where High means the query
used a large amount of CPU resources and should be improved to be more
efficient) - *State* – whether the query was completed, failed, or was
throttled - *Query time* – how long it took to run the query - *Time
range* – the time range used in the query

____
[!TIP] If the query state is *Failed*, you can hover the field to view
the reason for the query failure.
____

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/ah-query-resources/excessive-usage-sample.png''
alt-text=``view inefficient queries''
lightbox=``../../media/ah-query-resources/excessive-usage-sample.png'':::

==== Find resource-heavy queries

Queries with high resource usage or a long query time can probably be
optimized to prevent throttling via this interface.

The graph displays resource usage over time per interface. You can
easily identify excessive usage and click the spikes in the graph to
filter the table accordingly. Once you select an entry in the graph, the
table is filtered to that specific date.

You can identify the queries that used the most resources on that day
and take action to improve them – by
link:advanced-hunting-best-practices.md[applying query best practices]
or educating the user who ran the query or created the rule to take
query efficiency and resources into consideration. For guided mode, the
user needs to
link:advanced-hunting-query-builder-details.md#switch-to-advanced-mode-after-building-a-query[switch
to advanced mode] to edit the query.

The graph supports two views: - Average use per day – the average use of
resources per day - Highest use per day – the highest actual use of
resources per day

image::../../media/ah-query-resources/resource-usage-over-time.png[Two
view modes for query resources report]

This means that, for instance, if on a specific day you ran two queries,
one used 50% of your resources and one used 100%, the average daily use
value would show 75%, while the top daily use would show 100%.

=== Related topics

* link:advanced-hunting-best-practices.md[Advanced hunting best
practices]
* link:advanced-hunting-errors.md[Handle advanced hunting errors]
* link:advanced-hunting-overview.md[Advanced hunting overview]
