= 
MSFTTracyP

== Pilot Microsoft Defender for Office 365

*Applies to:* - Microsoft 365 Defender

This article is link:eval-defender-office-365-overview.md[Step 3 of 3]
in the process of setting up the evaluation environment for Microsoft
Defender for Office 365. For more information about this process, see
the link:eval-defender-office-365-overview.md[overview article].

Use the following steps to set up and configure the pilot for Microsoft
Defender for Office 365.

:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/defender/m365-defender-office-pilot.png''
alt-text=``The steps for creating the pilot in the Microsoft Defender
for Office 365 portal.''
lightbox=``../../media/defender/m365-defender-office-pilot.png'':::

* link:#step-1-create-pilot-groups[Step 1: Create pilot groups]
* link:#step-2-configure-protection[Step 2: Configure protection]
* link:#step-3-try-out-capabilities-and-get-familiar-with-simulation-monitoring-and-metrics[Step
3: Try out capabilities — Get familiar with simulation&#44; monitoring&#44; and
metrics]

When you evaluate Microsoft Defender for Office 365, you might choose to
pilot specific users before enabling and enforcing policies for your
entire organization. Creating distribution groups can help manage the
deployment processes. For example, create groups such as _Defender for
Office 365 Users - Standard Protection_, _Defender for Office 365 Users
- Strict Protection_, _Defender for Office 365 Users - Custom
Protection_, or _Defender for Office 365 Users - Exceptions_.

It might not be evident why `Standard' and `Strict' are the terms used
for these groups, but that will become clear when you explore more about
Defender for Office 365 security presets. Naming groups `custom' and
`exceptions' speak for themselves, and though most of your users should
fall under _standard_ and _strict_, custom and exception groups will
collect valuable data for you regarding managing risk.

=== Step 1: Create pilot groups

Distribution groups can be created and defined directly in Exchange
Online or synchronized from on-premises Active Directory.

[arabic]
. Sign in to the Exchange Admin Center (EAC) at
https://admin.exchange.microsoft.com using an account that has been
granted Recipient Administrator role or been delegated group management
permissions.
. Go to *Recipients* > *Groups*.
+
:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mdo-eval/1_mdo-eval-pilot.png'' alt-text=” The
Groups menu item to be clicked.”
lightbox=``../../media/mdo-eval/1_mdo-eval-pilot.png'':::
. On the *Groups* page, select
image:../../media/m365-cc-sc-add-internal-icon.png[Add a group icon.]
*Add a group*.
+
:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mdo-eval/2_mdo-eval-pilot-add-group.png''
alt-text=``The Add a group option to be clicked.''
lightbox=``../../media/mdo-eval/2_mdo-eval-pilot-add-group.png'':::
. For group type, select *Distribution*, and then click *Next*.
+
:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mdo-eval/3-mdo-eval-pilot-group-type.png''
alt-text=” The Choose a group type section.”
lightbox=``../../media/mdo-eval/3-mdo-eval-pilot-group-type.png'':::
. Give the group a *Name* and and optional *Description*, and then click
Next.
+
:::image type=``content''
source=``../../media/mdo-eval/4_mdo-eval-pilot-set-up-basics.png''
alt-text=``The Set up the basics section.''
lightbox=``../../media/mdo-eval/4_mdo-eval-pilot-set-up-basics.png'':::
. On the remaining pages, assign an owner, add members to the group, set
the email address, join-depart restrictions, and other settings.

=== Step 2: Configure protection

Some capabilities in Defender for Office 365 are configured and turned
on by default, but security operations might want to raise the level of
protection from the default.

Some capabilities are _not yet_ configured. You have the following
options for configuring protection:

* *Assign users to preset security policies*:
link:../office-365-security/preset-security-policies.md[Preset security
policies] are provided as a method to quickly assign a uniform level of
protection across all of the capabilities. You can choose from
*Standard* or *Strict* protection. The advantage here is that you
protect groups of users as quickly as possible. This disadvantage here
is that you can’t customize most of the settings in preset security
policies (for example, you can’t change an action from *Deliver to
recipients’ Junk Email folders* to *Quarantine* or vice-versa). Also
keep in mind that preset security policies are _always_ applied before
custom policies. So, if you want to create and use any custom policies,
you’ll need to exclude users in those custom policies from preset
security policies.
* *Configure _custom_ protection policies*: If you prefer to configure
the environment yourself, you can quickly achieve a _baseline_ of
protection by following the guidance in
link:../office-365-security/protect-against-threats.md[Protect against
threats]. With this approach, you get to learn more about the settings
that are configurable. And, you can fine-tune the policies later.
+
You can also build and assign custom protection policies as part of your
evaluation. Before you start customizing policies, it’s important to
understand the precedence in which these protection policies are applied
and enforced. Security operations will need to create and/or configure
some policies, even if when the preset is applied.
* *Assign preset security policies automatically*:
link:../office-365-security/preset-security-policies.md[Preset security
policies] are provided as a method to quickly assign a uniform level of
protection across all of the capabilities. You can choose from
*_Standard_* or *_Strict_*. A good approach is to start with preset
security policies and then fine-tune the policies as you learn more
about the capabilities and your own unique threat environment. The
advantage here is that you protect groups of users as quickly as
possible, with the ability to tweak protection afterward. (This method
is recommended.)
* *Configure baseline protection manually*: If you prefer to configure
the environment yourself, you can quickly achieve a _baseline_ of
protection by following the guidance in
link:../office-365-security/protect-against-threats.md[Protect against
threats]. With this approach, you get to learn more about the settings
that are configurable. And, you can fine-tune the policies later.
* *Configure _custom_ protection policies*: You can also build and
assign custom protection policies as part of your evaluation. Before you
start customizing policies, it’s important to understand the precedence
in which these protection policies are applied and enforced. Security
ops will need to create some policies even if when the preset is
applied, in specific in order to define security policies for Safe Links
and Safe Attachments.

____
[!IMPORTANT] *If you need to configure custom protection policies*, you
should examine the values that make up the *Standard* and *Strict*
security definitions here:
link:../office-365-security/recommended-settings-for-eop-and-office365.md[Recommended
settings for EOP and Microsoft Defender for Office 365 security].
Default values, as seen before any configuration takes place are also
listed. Keep a spreadsheet of where your custom build deviates.
____

==== Assign preset security policies

We recommended you begin with the _recommended baseline policies_ when
evaluating MDO and then refine them as needed over the course of your
evaluation period.

You can enable preset security policies in EOP and Defender for Office
365 fast, and assign them to specific pilot users or defined groups as
part of your evaluation. Preset policies offer a baseline *Standard*
protection template or a more aggressive *Strict* protection template,
which can be assigned independently.

For example, an EOP condition for pilot evaluations could be applied if
the recipients are _members_ of a defined _EOP Standard Protection_
group, and then managed by adding accounts to, or removing account from,
the group.

Likewise, a Defender for Office 365 condition for pilot evaluations
could be applied if the recipients are _members_ of a defined _Defender
for Office 365 Standard Protection_ group and then managed by adding /
removing accounts via the group.

For complete instructions, see
link:../office-365-security/preset-security-policies.md#use-the-microsoft-365-defender-portal-to-assign-standard-and-strict-preset-security-policies-to-users[Use
the Microsoft 365 Defender portal to assign Standard and Strict preset
security policies to users].

==== Configure custom protection policies

The pre-defined _Standard_ or _Strict_ Defender for Office 365 policy
templates give your pilot users the recommended baseline protection.
However, you can also build and assign custom protection policies as
part of your evaluation.

It’s _important_ to be aware of the precedence these protection policies
take when applied and enforced, as explained in
link:../office-365-security/how-policies-and-protections-are-combined.md[Order
and precedence of email protection - Office 365] and
link:../office-365-security/preset-security-policies.md#order-of-precedence-for-preset-security-policies-and-other-policies[Order
of precedence for preset security policies and other policies].

The table below provides references and more guidance for configuring
and assigning custom protection policies:

[width="100%",cols="18%,15%,^26%,^26%,15%",options="header",]
|===
|Policy |Description |Included in presetsecurity policies? |Default
policyavailable? |Reference
|Connection filter policies |Identify good or bad source email servers
by IP address. |No |Yes
|link:../office-365-security/connection-filter-policies-configure.md[Configure
the default connection filter policy in EOP]

|Outbound spam filter policies |Specify outbound message rate limits and
control external email forwarding. |No |Yes
|link:../office-365-security/outbound-spam-policies-configure.md[Configure
outbound spam filtering in EOP]

|Anti-malware policies |Protect users from email malware including what
actions to take and who to notify if malware is detected. |Yes |Yes
|link:../office-365-security/anti-malware-policies-configure.md[Configure
anti-malware policies in EOP]

|Anti-spam policies |Protect users from email spam including what
actions to take if spam is detected. |Yes |Yes
|link:../office-365-security/anti-spam-policies-configure.md[Configure
anti-spam policies in Defender for Office 365]

|Anti-spoofing protection |Protect users from spoofing attempts using
spoof intelligence and spoof intelligence insights. |Yes |Yes
|link:../office-365-security/anti-spoofing-spoof-intelligence.md[Configure
spoof intelligence in Defender for Office 365]
link:../office-365-security/anti-phishing-policies-eop-configure.md[Configure
anti-phishing policies in EOP]

|Impersonation protection |Protect users from phishing attacks and
configure safety tips on suspicious messages |Yes, but some
configuration required. |Yes, but some configuration required.
|link:../office-365-security/anti-phishing-policies-about.md#impersonation-settings-in-anti-phishing-policies-in-microsoft-defender-for-office-365[Impersonation
settings in anti-phishing policies in Microsoft Defender for Office 365]
link:../office-365-security/anti-phishing-mdo-impersonation-insight.md[Impersonation
insight in Defender for Office 365]
link:../office-365-security/anti-phishing-policies-mdo-configure.md[Configure
anti-phishing policies in Microsoft Defender for Office 365]

|Safe Attachments policies |Protect users from malicious content in
email attachments and files in SharePoint, OneDrive, and Teams. |Yes
|Effectively, via Built-in protection
|link:../office-365-security/safe-attachments-policies-configure.md[Set
up Safe Attachment policies in Defender for Office 365]

|Safe Links policies |Protect users from opening and sharing malicious
links in email messages or supported Office apps. |Yes |Effectively, via
Built-in protection
|link:../office-365-security/safe-links-policies-configure.md[Set up
Safe Links policies in Defender for Office 365]
|===

=== Step 3: Try out capabilities and get familiar with simulation, monitoring, and metrics

Now that your pilot is set up and configured, it’s helpful to become
familiar with the reporting, monitoring, and attack simulation tools
that are unique to Microsoft Defender for Microsoft 365.

[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",options="header",]
|===
|Capability |Description |More information
|Threat Explorer |Threat Explorer is a powerful near real-time tool to
help Security Operations teams investigate and respond to threats and
displays information about suspected malware and phish in email and
files in Office 365, as well as other security threats and risks to your
organization.
|link:../office-365-security/threat-explorer-views.md[Views in Threat
Explorer and real-time detections]

|Attack simulation training |You can use Attack simulation training in
the Microsoft 365 Defender portal to run realistic attack scenarios in
your organization, which help you identify and find vulnerable users
before a real attack impacts your environment.
|link:../office-365-security/attack-simulation-training-get-started.md[Get
started using Attack simulation training]

|Reports dashboard |On the left navigation menu, click Reports and
expand the Email & collaboration heading. The Email & collaboration
reports are about spotting security trends some of which will allow you
to take action (through buttons like `Go to submissions'), and others
that will show trends. These metrics are generated automatically.
|link:../office-365-security/reports-email-security.md[View email
security reports in the Microsoft 365 Defender portal]
link:../office-365-security/reports-defender-for-office-365.md[View
Defender for Office 365 reports in the Microsoft 365 Defender portal]
|===

=== Next steps

link:eval-defender-endpoint-overview.md[Evaluate Microsoft Defender for
Endpoint]

Return to the overview for
link:eval-defender-office-365-overview.md[Evaluate Microsoft Defender
for Office 365]

Return to the overview for link:eval-overview.md[Evaluate and pilot
Microsoft 365 Defender]
