= 
dansimp
:keywords: incidents, alerts, investigate, correlation, attack, devices,
users, identities, identity, mailbox, email, 365, microsoft, m365,
incident response, cyber-attack, secops, security operations, soc

== Step 2. Perform a SOC integration readiness assessment using the Zero Trust Framework

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* - Microsoft 365 Defender

Once the core functions of the Security Operations Center (SOC) team are
defined, the next step for your organization is to prepare for the
adoption of Microsoft 365 Defender through a
link:/security/zero-trust/[Zero Trust approach]. Adoption can help you
determine the requirements needed for deploying Microsoft 365 Defender
using modern industry-leading practices, while evaluating Microsoft 365
Defender’s capabilities against your environment.

This approach is based on a strong foundation of protections and
includes key areas such as identity, endpoints (devices), data, apps,
infrastructure, and networking. The Readiness Assessment team will
determine the areas where a foundational requirement for enabling
Microsoft 365 Defender has not yet been met and will need remediation.

The following are some of the items that will need to be remediated in
order for the SOC to fully optimize processes in the SOC:

* *Identity:* Legacy on-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD
DS) domains, no MFA plan, no inventory of privileged accounts, and
others.
* *Endpoints (devices):* Large number of legacy operating systems,
limited device inventory, and others.
* *Data and apps:* Lack of data governance standards, no inventory of
custom apps that won’t integrate.
* *Infrastructure:* Large number of unsanctioned SaaS licenses, no
container security, and others.
* *Networking:* Performance issues due to low bandwidth, flat network,
wireless security issues, and others.

Organizations should also follow the link:m365d-enable.md[turning on
Microsoft 365 Defender] article to capture the baseline set of
configuration requirements. These steps will in turn determine
remediation activities the SOC teams will have to carry out to
effectively develop use cases.

Adoption procedures and use case creation are described in Steps 3 and
4.

=== Next step

link:integrate-microsoft-365-defender-secops-services.md[Step 3. Plan
for Microsoft 365 Defender integration with your SOC catalog of
services]
