= 
mjcaparas
:keywords: raw data export, Streaming API, API, Event hubs, Azure
storage, storage account, Hunting, raw data sharing

== Supported Microsoft 365 Defender streaming event types in event streaming API

{empty}[!INCLUDE link:../../includes/microsoft-defender.md[Microsoft 365
Defender rebranding]]

*Applies to:* -
https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2118804[Microsoft 365 Defender]

____
[!NOTE] *Try our new APIs using MS Graph security API*. Find out more
at: link:/graph/api/resources/security-api-overview[Use the Microsoft
Graph security API - Microsoft Graph beta | Microsoft Learn].
____

{empty}[!includelink:../../includes/prerelease.md[Prerelease
information]]

The Event Streaming API is constantly being expanded to support more
event types. Learn which Hunting tables are generally available,
currently in public preview, or not yet supported.

*New - Identity and CloudApp event types/tables are now GA*.

=== Hunting tables support status in Event Streaming API

The following table only includes the list of the tables supported in
the streaming API, and is not inclusive of all AH schema. For a full
list of the API see,
link:advanced-hunting-schema-tables.md#learn-the-schema-tables[Learn the
schema tables].

[width="100%",cols="20%,20%,20%,20%,20%",options="header",]
|===
|Table name |Status(Commercial) |GCC |GCC High |DoD
|*link:advanced-hunting-alertevidence-table.md[AlertEvidence]* |GA |GA
|GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-alertinfo-table.md[AlertInfo]* |GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-deviceevents-table.md[DeviceEvents]* |GA |GA |GA
|GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-DeviceFileCertificateInfo-table.md[DeviceFileCertificateInfo]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-devicefileevents-table.md[DeviceFileEvents]* |GA
|GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-deviceimageloadevents-table.md[DeviceImageLoadEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-deviceinfo-table.md[DeviceInfo]* |GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-devicelogonevents-table.md[DeviceLogonEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-devicenetworkevents-table.md[DeviceNetworkEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-devicenetworkinfo-table.md[DeviceNetworkInfo]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-deviceprocessevents-table.md[DeviceProcessEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-deviceregistryevents-table.md[DeviceRegistryEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-emailattachmentinfo-table.md[EmailAttachmentInfo]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-emailevents-table.md[EmailEvents]* |GA |GA |GA
|GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-emailpostdeliveryevents-table.md[EmailPostDeliveryEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-emailurlinfo-table.md[EmailUrlInfo]* |GA |GA |GA
|GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-identitylogonevents-table.md[IdentityLogonEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-identityqueryevents-table.md[IdentityQueryEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-identitydirectoryevents-table.md[IdentityDirectoryEvents]*
|GA |GA |GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-cloudappevents-table.md[CloudAppEvents]* |GA |GA
|GA |GA

|*link:advanced-hunting-urlclickevents-table.md[UrlClickEvents]* |GA |GA
|GA |GA
|===

=== Related topics

link:/graph/api/resources/security-api-overview[Use the Microsoft Graph
security API - Microsoft Graph beta | Microsoft Learn]
